Father, we thank you this morning Lord


will open our hearts to your spirit and


we trust that in this service again the


eyes of our understanding will be


flooded with light. We leave here with a


greater understanding of your will, your


purpose, your plan. And even as we again


study around an issue of our souls, this


quietness that we find the answers in


your word and we find comfort in your


word. And of course we draw strength and


boldness, courage


in your name. We know that our lives,


our ministries will never be the same.


We thank you for the wisdom. We thank


you for the clarity. We know that the


things that ought to be said in this


service will be said. The things that


ought to be done will be done to the


praise and glory of your name.


Amen. God bless you. Have your


seats. Answering souls this


quietness.


Hallelujah. Psalms chapter 42.


And again look at that text of


scripture. Psalms chapter 42 and verse


5. Psalm 42 and verse 5. Psalm 42 and


verse 5. Why art thou cast down, oh my


soul? And why art thou disqued in me?


Hope thou in God and I shall yet praise


him for the help of his countenance. Oh


my God, my soul is cast down within me.


Therefore will I remember thee. Of


course that's the solution. Verse 11.


Why thou cast down, oh my soul, why thou


disqued within me. My soul is disqued


within me. Hope thou in God. And we said


that's the uh the the Hebrew


causative the hippil hi p h i l hippil


imperative a command you give back. So


it's an imperative stem root used in the


Hebrew to speak of say to your soul. So


is I give a command to my soul. Hope in


God, no


shaking. Hope in God. Hope thou in God.


For I shall yet praise him who is the


health who is the health of my


countenance and my God. Then Psalm 43


and verse 5. Why art thou cast down oh


my soul? And why art thou disquited


within me? hope in God for I shall yet


praise him who is the health of my


countenance and my


God. So all of them he said for I will


yet hope uh hope in God for I shall yet


praise him. So that means there is no


circumstance no situation that is good


enough for us not to praise the Lord for


us to become


ungrateful of ingratitude. Though we are


full of thanksgiving in all things give


thanks. We thank the Lord in all seasons


of our life. Not because of the bad


things that are happening. We thank God


because he is a good God. He is faithful


to his word, to his name. And we know


that ultimately we trust him. We know


that things would always work


out at the end because our faith, our


trust is in him. And we said that


disqueness, it's that state of of


uneasy where people mumbl, growl, rowl,


there's a disqueness, an inner turmoil


of a sort. And we explained all of that


and that word


disqu is to be troubled of spirit and


soul to be distrust to be worried upset


over circumstances that one cannot


control upset about how things have


turned out to be. That's that so


disqueness uh border troubled


disturbed and it can't even lead to


depression where the heart is heavy that


disquited that state of inner turmoil.


Uh I don't know what is happening then


people start lashing out and Paul uh the


writer David in psalms says I I do not


start guessing. said, "I say to my soul,


hope in God. Trust the Lord. Do not


allow my present emotional condition to


cause me to hurt others or to hurt


myself." And so he speaks to his soul


because in that soul disqueness, we lash


out. We say things about God. We say


things about people. We are not in a


good place at that time. So said, "I


will not say anything." Instead, I say


to myself, hope in God, trust in God.


And I said uh for the sake of this


teaching to be make it a bit very


practical and thorough in


my small study of the Bible of reading


the Bible cover to cover. I can


uh say seven things that would help that


soul's quietness and I think if we live


with that knowledge it will help us to


be in that state


of peace at all times. We are not


bothered. Nothing troubles us to the


degree where we fall out of joy, peace.


We fall out of our strength, our power,


our courage, our strength. No, I have


strength for my destiny. I'm strong. I'm


I'm never weak. I'm never And yet the


circumstances, situation can be


overwhelming. But no, no, no, no, no.


I'm tougher than it. Tougher than the


storm, fiercer than the wind, and all of


that. Amen. That is the believer.


built to last for all seasons. Amen.


Hallelujah. So, but we shouldn't uh deny


that issue. Like we said, Jesus the


apostles even when we saw God in flesh,


God incarnate himself, he wept over


Lazarus death, he wept over Jerusalem.


Lament is a human condition. God in


flesh is still lamenting. That means


lament is part of the human experience


as it were. You notice Thessalonia


Ecclesiastes before Ecclesiastes talks


about the time for everything. Then he


says the time to even mourn is even put


there now because the world has


variations. There are now contrary days


because there is light and there is


darkness and God did not make darkness.


But now in a world of light and


darkness, good and evil, you will see


contradictions in the day of adversity.


It says


consider is God that set one day over


the other. So there are days of


adversity. There are days of abundance.


There are days where things are working


fine. There are days things are not


working fine. It's part of the human


experience. In fact, John 16 Jesus said


in this world you will have tribulation.


So Jesus never promised us or told us


that there will not be issues or


difficulties. So when we face


difficulties, why is it always God we


get to lash out


on? That is because of again wrong


biblical teachings of what Christianity


is for. Because some people have


Christianity as come to Jesus, he will


make you rich. Come to Jesus, he will


make you this and he's always making


making and that's where the frustration


comes from because this was why I came.


That's not why we came to Jesus. Come to


Jesus so that he will give you his


spirit. You will have eternal life. It's


not come to Jesus so that he will make


you rich.


And it's not because rich is a bad


thing. Neither will he make you


poor. Are you following? Is that if you


come to him, he will give you eternal


life. Say come to Jesus. Come to Jesus.


And many times the


catch phrase, the the selling point that


we give to people in a supposed


evangelism, which of course we have


always refuted in this ministry. That's


not how to preach. That's not the


gospel. That's not even how to win


souls.


Uh come to Jesus, he will heal you. You


don't have to come to Jesus for him to


heal you. That's actually the bad school


you are preaching. The the gospel is if


you don't come to Jesus, he will heal


you. If you don't come to him, he will


give you fruit of the womb. But if you


come to him, he will give you his


spirit. He will give eternal life. He


will live in you. That's the gospel.


Those ones are what God does for people.


He causes his rain to fall under good


and evil. That's how generous God is. A


God who upgraded not. He doesn't find


reasons not to answer. You are the ones


who look for reasons why God could not


have done this. No, he upgraded not. He


finds no reason why he shouldn't answer.


He's a good God, a merciful God, a


gracious God. He seeks to answer us. He


seeks to be a God over all flesh.


However, in him being God over all


flesh, he has created man in such a


manner that the heavens of the heavens


is the Lord, but the earth has he given


to the sons of men. And God will the


earth to man in a stewardship


responsibility. So man basically is in


charge. When we say why is these things


happening? Why is life like this? We


ought to say why are human beings like


this. That's obviously the answer. We


don't like that answer. But that's the


answer. Stop mentioning God. Why God?


It's not God that made the world the way


the world is. Just like it's not God


that is making your business, your life,


your your choices, your decisions have


done a lot of damage. Leave God out of


it. Let to take responsibility. Amen.


Now, God did not make man to be an


absent story to be absent that man is to


live life without God. No, God made man


to dwell with man. I've used that phrase


over the years. He is the dwell among


us. God. That's the biblical story, not


a fly away to heaven theory that was


created by false philosophy and all of


that. The biblical story is that God has


always wanted to make his home with man.


God always wants to live with man. And


that's why you see from Genesis to


Revelation, the story the Bible tells is


creation to new creation, creation to


new creation, God's plan. And you notice


how Revelation ends. God is now dwelling


with man. The God is with man and


forever and ever. That was his


intention. All the promises as we call


them in Genesis to Malachi, all promises


of God dwelling with man. That's why the


coming of the Lord, not the going to the


Lord, is the coming of the Lord. Is the


coming of the Lord. Get that into your


head that God wants to dwell with you.


Not we say we go away. Even all the the


lazy foolish escatological


explanations lazy foolish I mean because


they have destroyed lives how you some


people tell people don't don't go there


is the mark of the beast I mean very


foolish hindering their members from


many things say that's the mark of this


is this is the antichrist everything is


antichrist later they never get to


repent for those foolishness never get


to cover it up with pride and many


things I thought you said s this the


mark of the beast Shame on you now that


this you say rapture is going to happen


and we're going to watch it and see that


the rapture does not happen in that six


years. Shame on you sir. you are


destroying your members from having


businesses


because why do we do all of those


things? That's why I use the word fully.


So it's not like I'm trying


to because it's painful because so many


lives have been destroyed. They now say


Jesus. It's not Jesus. Your pastor was


just


stupid telling you things and you didn't


fact check it by reading the Bible. The


only person that spoke about antichrist


was John and he said he's already here.


Why is your pastor telling you he's


coming? Say he's coming in seven years


time because you no stop interpreting


Bible with your mind. Interpret Bible


with Bible. Much of those interventions


have come from Hollywood, Left Behind


Movie, all those wonderful books written


by people that have said some other good


things that are correct in many other


areas too. But it's not that somebody


says something correct in one area,


doesn't mean he says everything correct


in every area. As we have seen though


somebody says something good in one


area, we ought to be able to trust their


position in other areas. But we've seen


that people like to be specialist. A


Bible teacher should not be a


specialist. We should teach all the


scriptures. We should learn all the


topics in the Bible. Not I'm a


specialist for healing. I'm a specialist


for this. Is again is a shock when we


started teaching on some topics maybe


2015 2016. I remember the shock on some


people's face say oh pastor you know


about I thought pastor you just taugh


you you you teach the supernatural the


prophetic healing. I said it's in the


Bible now. Why should I not be able to


teach what is in the Bible? said, "Oh,


people are used to abnormal people." I


felt shocked that they were shocked. Why


should I not be able to? This is the


book now. I don't understand. We read


it. This is what we do for a living.


Read Bible and teach Bible. So why


should I not be able to teach it


somewhere that is in the Bible? So we


not be surprised if your mathematics


cannot teach


mathematics. Don't know how we normalize


absurdity. It's a shame that a pastor


can't teach every Bible subject. That's


why you should work hard. That's why you


should leave everything and be reading


Bible. So, so that it will not be I


don't know that one. Why don't you know


it sir then spend time now don't close


your door stay inside and learn it. So


that is why he says hard


work we give them double honor. They


labor in the word and because it's labor


it's labor. It's labor. It's labor.


Hallelujah. Let's rush away back to what


I was saying.


So the soul's disqueness many times can


even come not just from your choices can


also come from pastors how pastors teach


and preach and how they promise things


and how they say things that are


unrealistic. It can also come from there


also come from there and people get


discouraged and said oh I thought they


said even you see those comedians are


very funny they do those comedy skit


that they said I thought they said this


year is your year but he said not onto


your year. Of course, it's not going to


be your year with such a stupid attitude


of holding stone and waiting for the


pastor to corner him. Obviously, the


year could never have been your year and


no year will ever be your year because


obviously have a cost attitude that


itself means that life forces will be ad


will be against you. Yeah, that's not a


posture to have at all. Now, people say


things, why do people say things? What


are confessions for? What are


declarations about the new year for just


to give people hope? Hope is for the


living. You can as well say this is your


year of no expectation. It's okay and I


said that in the end of year service you


know many time we like apologizing to


people. No, it's okay that you don't


have anything that this year is for you.


It's okay. Learn to always tell people


that it's okay for them to fail. It's


okay for them not to have hope because


if they don't want don't make me not


have


hope. I in the natural people said I


don't think it was church that people


said that we g for anybody last year I


don't think it was church they learn


that now different h different uh tag


lines or different slogans that people


use last year they didn't get it from


church


now you guys are not in the world it's


not last year that they did that not g


for anybody we not g for pap is that not


having focus what about the people that


not g for them why you not come out and


I I want to write to this Instagram


person that said we should not grieve


for last year but last year not great


for me. I want to write to my favorite


Facebook blogger. People know not to be


stupid but they know to be like that


because generation and people that have


not been taught honor not been taught


proper civility. How look at how people


get angry that other people other


persons don't hold on to their view. For


God's sake is your view. And that's the


same reason that lead to jihad, lead to


killing, lead to all of these things. We


are intolerant of people not holding on


to our views. People can hold on to


their views. Does it make it right? Let


them hold on to their views for God's


sake. God gave man choice for God's


sake. Even the choice of going to hell,


let them believe what they want to


believe and destroy themselves now. But


ultimately, you can't say you didn't


tell them the


truth. Amen.


So soul disqueness is quite a lot and


many things get to lead to all of that


soul disqueness. It's not just my


choices, my wrong choices or life is


just tough or just devil cuz some


persons have one approach that uh is


just my choices. No, sometimes it could


be


uh the choices of others persons are now


falling upon you wrongly which we have


also seen or it could be devilish. Jesus


said ought not this woman who Satan has


bound this 18 years be looed. So Satan


attacks people. Satan like a lion


seeking whom he may devour. So Satan


seeks people to devour. That means they


actually people that he has devoured. If


he's seeking people to devote that means


he had devoured many persons. And that's


why I say resist steadfast in the faith.


First Peter 5. The same thing in James


4. We resist him steadfast in the faith.


Verse


eight. Whom we resist steadfast in the


faith. So there's an emphasis. First


Peter 5. There's an emphasis of how we


live. There's an emphasis. James Peter


resist. Resist. So we resist the devil.


We resist him.


Hallelujah. So there's a teaching on


that. We know that our


choices, people's


choices, sometimes it's not your choice,


it's not people's choice is the devil or


as we call it the powers of darkness.


Sometimes it's just


uh


life because there is sin and death in


the world. It's just life. It's just


uh many chain reactions coming from many


other places


governmental ethnic


uh u economical there are many things


chain reactions now bush we are not


seeing it so it's not it's not god that


make purchasing power to have reduced


it's not god that caused the inflation


are you following many it didn't just


happen today many things have been


leading up to


All right. So some things build up over


time like that. So if I don't tell


myself is not a way that I will always


leave that I'm not disquited within me.


If I do not tell myself that there is a


way I will always be tossed back and


forth. Every day I wake up my hands on


my j that's defeat that's some people


have had to live around.


My soul is always disqued within me. No,


you need to now learn there must be a


solution to this. It's enough is enough.


I want to actually live my life without


my soul being disquited within me. Every


time I I'm in inner trouble or every


time I'm broken down, every time I'm


looking like without peace, without joy,


without I can't just let things be


determining my joy, peace, my


state, circumstance not go my way. Are


you a baby? Things don't always go your


way. Now, children grow up to know that.


But again,


Hold on to all of this is in the heart.


Ah, nobody can tell me. Oh, God. No, no,


no. But that's not


life. So losing peace, anxiety, stress,


overwhelming circumstances, all of these


things cause diseness. And we said that


word soul there is not oh my mind, my


emotion is entireity you.


soul deals with life. The Hebrew word


nep the same Greek word suk means the


same. I gave you some context about that


though I don't want it to be about


soul. So but when you use the word my


soul he's talking about his being e i n


g his being is disqued that means


everything within him. So that means his


mind, his emotions, his will, his


choices, everything within him, I'm


tired. Many times we get there in life.


And the point we are making is God knows


we get there. God does not say how dare


you become like that. He knows. So we


see that the prophets wrote like


that. There are several portions of the


Bible where we see their humanity where


they also like ush what is this? What is


happening? But what we never see as a


teaching in the scriptures is to justify


those positions. Instead they say I will


hope in God I will trust God. Then later


they say I'll come out from the


situation. So it's understandable and


that's where we now learn oh stop


talking because as you are talking when


you situation you say many things that


you not like that's why I say either you


hurt people you hurt yourself. No just


tell your soul to hope in God. So are


there circumstances and situation? Are


there things that want to cause that


inner turmoil?


Yes. But do we have the answer? Yes. So


number one, we said the answer of


meaning. The answer of meaning or true


essence. When I know the true essence of


things. When I know the true essence of


things. Luke chapter 12 and verse


um Luke chapter


12 verse 15. And he said unto them,


"Take heed and beware of covetousness.


For a man's life consist, a man's life,


the word life


there." Remember how he lives. All


right? A man's life consist not in the


abundance of the things which he


possesses.


And he spake a parable unto them,


saying, verse 16, the ground of a


certain rich man brought forth


plentifully. And he thought within


himself, saying, "What shall I do


because I have no room where to bestow


my fruits?" And he said, "This will I


do. I will pull down my bands and build


greater to increase his storehouses. And


there will I bestow all my fruits and my


goods. And I will say to my soul, so


thou has much goods laid up for many


years. Take thine ease, eat, drink, and


be


merry. But God said unto him, Thou fool


this night. That's a foolish way to


live. Thou fool, this night thy soul


shall be required of thee. Then who


shall those things be which thou has


provided? So is he that layeth up


treasure for himself and is not rich


towards God. When are we going to learn


the lesson the easy way instead of


always the hard way? Ecclesiastes gives


us that wisdom. The preacher says vanity


up vanity all is


vanity and he said everything I desired


my soul went out for it. And we said all


of this on Sunday so I'll just rush out


of it and move to number two. But you


see that when you will make when you


make your life about acquisition, it


will never be enough. You have made one


million. You want to make your next 2


million. You want to make your next


three million. And please don't get it


twisted. God is not angry or against you


making those things. But don't make it


the focus of your life. That's it. Don't


make it you can't serve God and m the


focus of your life. You are backslided


already. You always because there will


always be some except you don't have


sense. So there will always be something


to acquire. Except you were not born for


much. People like us that were born for


much. We have something to acquire. We


want to move to the next level. We want


more. There's nothing wrong with more.


There's nothing wrong with more. It's


just common sense. Anybody with common


sense, we want


more. Sorry, I'm just talking for us


that have sense because I don't know


because there's nothing wrong with that.


The issue is now make more the essence


of my life.


That's not the essence of my life. So we


now said once I know the meaning of


life, the essence of life, the true


essence of things. Why was things made?


Why is life? What am I living for? What


is my existence on this head for? Aha.


I've already found a major answer to my


soul's


disqueness. Hallelujah. I've already


found some of people don't listen. They


have made up their mind. This my problem


is too much. I don't know what to say to


you because there's some person


that let pastor just finish. Let's


close your friends are sorry for that


trying to help you. You ought to be


forsaken left to himself because we need


to allow people the consequence of their


so they can grow


up. Grow


up. Nobody has told you the truth that


life is tough.


A believer of all things that that who


faces persecution does not know that


life is


tough. Quit you as men. Look at how Paul


is talking. Be


strong. What? What are you even going to


now find investigating foolishness now?


Carry enter the problem. Then let me


just


close. No sir, you cannot determine my


message. Deal with your silliness. And


I'm talking to somebody that's just how


I preach. Forgive me and don't forgive


me. You know that what I mean? I'm not


sorry. I'm just telling you. Stop


thinking stupid things. When we come to


the church, the house of God, we we we


come to he who hears the secrets of our


hearts. Be careful how you are thinking


and talking. I may just point you so


everybody will know in your seat. That


is you. If you are thinking is hard to


know. We Paul says when you gather my


spirit is there. Look at when you see


how solemn the assembly is that cuz God


can answer my can answer the questions


in my heart man the power of God comes


don't joke with church oh don't see when


you sit as a place of refuge you realize


that oh we draw strength there not what


is all of this what is this especially


when you know the minister of God gives


himself to the lord he's not chased by


moonlight he's coming to read for


you amen


because some people need this to


survival. People need


this. And the church is the people of


whether I need it or not, they need to


learn every day because it's not just


about what I need this season. I always


should


grow. Amen.


Me, I just want to have things. Have you


have the things now? So calm down.


Listen. Nobody is saying don't have


things. Have things. But let things not


have you. Things have obviously had you.


That's why you are all down crying. Why


are you crying? You


say I couldn't make as much money as I


wanted to make, but you are alive. So


you get to go again. I get to go again.


And why are you making your whole life


about what I get to


have? You see those same people who cry


that their phone is broken. They have


never cried that a soul somebody's going


to hear. They have never cried over a


soul and say ah I don't just know why


things are not just working now your


home has reduced to two you have never


cried about it be your own judge you say


is about is about natural you are not


you are not serious you have it's like a


a story a mom they had a house help in


the house and the house help entered the


room the child allowed the house help


into the room


And the father, the mom came back, a


true story. And the mom came back and


the mom was leaving very angry. And the


mom so furious. She said, "How could you


have done that? I have so and so and so


and so." And she mentioned all the many


treasures she had. I have $250,000


there. I have gold here. I have silver


there. I have are you allowed enter into


the room. And the child was just listen


to the mom, listen to the mom because


the mom was saying all of those things.


and said to the mom because the mom


said, "How could you allow this child


this person enter into my


room? You know how treasure how valuable


things are there." Then the daughter


said something that we need to say. She


said, "But you left me with her. Am I


not treasurable? Am I not valuable to


you?" Common sense. Am I not valuable to


you? My gold. But you left your child


with the person you not think of that


one is is silver and gold that you want


to die


for later if you not have child that's


why you know oh god why not give me a


child now go and give you


child


so when we realize like I said once


don't have to learn it the hard


way because look at the questions say


now the man have born child he has born


a bastard child the other one say of


I've collected everything. He asked all


the questions that comes with human


pursuit. The everything that my soul


desired, I got it. But it did not bring


joy, not bring happiness. There was


still a void because life was not


designed to be filled with all of those


things. The core of life is God gets to


live with us. We live one with another.


And that starts with faith in God. Love


the Lord with all your heart. That's the


Shema prayer. Love the Lord your God.


Jeremy 6:5 and 6. Love the Lord with all


your heart, with all your strength, with


all your soul. Love your neighbor. Ask


yourself that. Love the Lord. Love your


neighbor. Love the Lord. Love your


neighbor. Repeated over 13 times in all


the scripture. Love the Lord with all


your heart, all your soul, your


strength. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, all


of them said it in different ways. Love


the Lord with all your heart. What's the


whole duty of man? Ecclesiastes 12. Fear


the Lord, keep his commandment. What is


fear the Lord, worship the Lord, serve


the Lord.


Because why did God make man a family


and his kingdom? We get to live with


him. We live with one another, a family.


Then there's a responsibility steward


his purpose on the earth. That is what


life is for. That's why in the


accountability, nobody's judged,


nobody's rewarded for how many house,


how many cars you have. And when we say


that somebody who is quick to who is who


does not listen, yes, that we are saying


don't have things. Who said


that? God never said we shouldn't have


things. God never said we


shouldn't have good things or best


things of life. Whatever that means to


you because it changes as you grow older


the best things of life. You know when


you are at a certain level you say if I


can have this my life is made now that


you had it. You want to have more


because it always changes. The goal post


always


shifts as you start getting bigger. All


right. Just like some person who never


say amen when we are praying prayers of


increase and favor because they feel


that their salary is enough. Very


poorminded


folks 1.8 million smile he he say this


prayer pray for them they don't have


money and you think you are rich 1.8


date every


month. That's why now when you live life


and you have carry responsibility of


other persons, you live life in a


generous manner. You see that why you


must always say amen because the one is


not enough. Not because it's not enough


for your own food, shelter, clothing,


but because you have carried the


responsibility of others, it's not


enough. Again, you will see the need.


You will see the needs. And people are


just selfish. They think life is all


about the if we combine our two salary,


we don't have anything to worry about.


is life is about you and your inside


your house. Now a sickness have come and


finish all that money. You have learned


the hard way. Why do we always want to


learn the hard way? Life was not


designed that


way. So can I have more and more? Yes,


but those more and more should not have


my soul. Luke 12:15, beware of


coiousness. A man's life does not conser


the abundance of things he possess. Look


at that man. He said, "I will say to my


soul, so you have laid up enough


goods." That's not it. That's not


it. Because how much is enough? So you


now set


target you now live a healthy life. How


much is going to be enough for you? If


you don't know how much is


enough, it's like in the natural. I was


talking to some persons and and I heard


that mocking tone. They said, "You are


still doing budget. you don't yet have


money. I said shut up countries have


budget sounds stupid. What do you think


you are saying? Talking from play


play mocking trying to mock me when you


should be mocked. You are in a in a


laughable condition that we should be


pied that you don't even know budgets


are not for poor


people. I had to


ease and he said I said keep


quiet America look at their budget you


richer than them no say I get the point


no you not get it I will finish you


let's continue more point no I get it


now I said no if you saw it is it that


you don't know before that countries


have budget because you have trained


yourself to always intimidate people


with your riches bring other people down


that's why you are sounding the way you


are sounding I had to deal with the


character issue but that was my only


opportunity to bring Jesus in was I've


been trying to talk to that business


person about Jesus since. So I brought


my Jesus in after we have we


have he said ah sleep on these things


and I'm happy today he's saved believes


in Jesus that's a good one I didn't pity


him because business talk we entered the


business talk the right way I finish his


life


there he listen to this


message it's not true because it's not


fair there's money we have you are


learning from your boys be


intelligent how much is that one we can


spend it in one you spend the one


doesn't make you intelligent be learning


like that living life that's the is the


is the is the pride that's why it's


called the pride of life calm


down calm


down they


finish people richer than you that are


not rich again. Oh, because they not


know many


things. Hallelujah.


So the book of Exodus


is look for meaning of life in many vain


pursuits and at the end he described


everything that I still feel empty. I


still it will still bring you back to


that same soul disquess. I still feel


empty. That's what I mean by vanity upon


vanity. This is meaningless. Vanity


empty vexation of spirit chasing the


wind. Ah, look at all the main things he


said. Says chasing the wind, vanity upon


vanity. Let's not learn it the hard way.


Is that okay? Because many of the things


uh how can purpose, fulfillment,


satisfaction in life be found is found


in God. When you learn that that is it,


you will now play the game of life.


where like I told you somebody 40 years


can still have more educational


qualification if he wants so he can go


to school again if he wants so he can


have more degrees if he wants to there's


no end to


acquisitions there's no end to


acquisition you always want to acquire


more and more that's why we always tell


people even the natural way want to say


why do you want to if you don't state


why you want to be rich you know because


that's why there's There's no particular


amount of money that is called wealth.


It's now that state where you are


financially free where you can live


independent of things and it's more than


a particular amount when always want. So


you need to now be able to situate


things and say okay this is


this. So first Timothy 6 having food and


women with be content because you


realize that the basic things like I


told you which is what people learn the


hard


way because there's nothing out there


that money cannot buy. So even all the


plenty food you see they serve it plenty


all over the table still


remain because but growing up they would


have you not see any remnant life is


more than food and yet food are the


basic things if not if those three


things are not there food shelter


clothing you go vex so but you reach a


certain level now don't have so much


money you have to buy so many clothes


you make a lot of money you be you have


gone beyond that law of branding


Whatever you wear is determines style


and class. You can choose to wear


singlet. Imagine


uh Jeff Bess with singlet. Everybody


will start wearing singlets. We sing


every day. Every day, every day not know


that he forgot to wear shirt. Let's say


he's forget to wear shirt like that


regular. Nobody's going to think that


he's so broke. So this man could not


afford. Nobody's going to ever think it


to he could not afford a


style. A style, a style. We make excuses


and we supply the answers for the people


who have gone beyond those


things. Life is more than. So let's not


learn it the hard way. Because even


those people still want to make more,


still want to make more. Why are they


making more? Not because they already


don't know. That's why they always


giving half away, half of their wealth


away, a quarter of their wealth away to


philanthropic


endeavors.


Because how much can I eat? How much can


I? So I need to learn that without


having all of those experience. I need


to tell myself


now how much is


enough? Need to be able to tell myself


that. If not, why are you disquite? Why


is your soul disquited within you?


Because you have not said you have not


told yourself the real meaning of life


and all of that. So no, I failed. Oh,


God has failed me. Which one is God that


failed you?


So when I understand the true answer or


I know the meaning of life, the essence


of things, much of my soul's disqueness


has already been answered. Is that point


clear? I think I have repeated it again


and


again. So life is more than having


things. Things have a purpose. But when


things become my God, that's


idolatry. when things when we worship


the creation more than the creator


things is not my god so we try our best


to have time to serve the things of God


not I don't care about Jesus I don't


care about his name I don't care about


his work I don't care about his cost


because I want to make money how much


will be enough because you say if I can


just make enough I will take Bible study


seriously how much is enough where you


take Bible study seriously realize that


they will never come because As long as


you have sense, you have exposure, you


want to make more again next time.


That's why you must tell yourself what


is important to me. Look at David like


we always say, richer than many of


us. One of the richest men that ever


lived because he stored enough that


helped Solomon to also be rich. He said,


I rather be a doorkeeper in the house of


God and to dwell in the tents of


wickedness. The same David said, I was


glad when they said, let us go into the


house of the Lord.


That's a king. He's wealthy. What do you


think he's lacking? Because there's more


to life. There's more to life. And


that's what we learn in church. When we


see that, oh, rich and poor sit


together. Educated sit together. Because


what puts people over people in the


local church has to be their maturity


and their service is not who you think I


am. No, not like that. serve one another


cuz that's also you know okay so that's


not about I can abase I can abound yes I


can do all things through Christ that


strengthen me in Philippians yes I can


live with plenty I can live with small


and every believer trains himself that


way that is the reason why every


believer can be a minister because


that's what I remember uh sharing a


story with some person I say the fish


you cut it into two the Say you want to


eat fish every time cut it to the half


this one is poverty how you how do you


understand this like


this because I'm poor and suffering and


dying say ah no then why not hear what


I'm saying because you don't have the


money to buy you want to cut it to like


say no you don't learn sense of


management now I give you the sense of


management because you think people get


to where they are without learning those


basic things now you have gotten trying


to rise you cannot rise because you have


failed in


basics, you cannot manage


things. Some some persons I mentor in


business and I said to some of them, I


said, "You spend more money in a month


than me. I've never been able to spend


over a 100,000 for myself in a month.


Never been able to." I'm not saying, of


course, maybe I'm conservative by


nature, but that's not


it. What is how many Okay, you learn it


the hard way. get to see and that hard


way is now that frustration that


wrinkles all over your face because here


we go again. Here we go again because


how much is going to be enough? I'm


talking about house expenses. I mean not


like your own pocket money and you spend


more than say because God things are a


bit better for you financially. Calm


down. Calm down. No, calm down.


No. And I talking to some Christian


brothers and I said to them what I give


in a month and one of them was so


interested and said so that means you


make this amount. I said no I don't make


that amount


monthly. Of course in the day of


abundance I had sense enough to ensure


that my finances I put it back for


investment assets. I don't buy


liabilities. I don't spend for


liabilities. I ensure because it's the


wisdom of not the seven years of


Abundance covers the seven years or five


minutes just so so always plan for the


day of scarcity. So put things in place


structures have been put in place. So


the money that comes in a month in


itself is not the issue is that money


now comes from many which is again the


concept of being wealthy of pushing be


to be wealthy. You learn all of those


basic things. It helps you. I explained


to all of them and they said so


so that's just it because for me core of


what I use money for is the things of


God either I'm using the money to make


more money if the major percentage is


either to make more money or if you


start what I'm doing that month is


generosity that's just you can have


other ones for your life but the reason


why I wanted to be wealthy in this life


was not because I wanted to have food to


eat. I was not working and I have food


to eat. I


had all of those basic thing that used


to survive and I learned management the


right


way. But I wanted to have more. That's


the reason. So when you want to have


more, you must do what people do natural


to have more. Not just they give you


your manager like that. You can't be


saying I would have wanted a better one.


go and work for your own you get the


better one. So you learn all of those


things. I came up the right way.


Anything you don't grow into will


crumble. You will destroy you. So should


why do you want more? For your wellbe,


for your happiness, for your joy. Say


money does not make me happy. How


come you are sad now? Because no for one


year. Calm down. Money makes people


happy. Stop saying foolish things. So


say money does not make people happy.


No. Say I'm a Christian. Money doesn't


make me happy. Christian, money can also


make you happy. Don't be saying things


that Bible not saying


you. Are you not happy? Are you Don't be


a hypocrite now. Money makes you happy.


Sound of out loud is a joyful sound.


If it's not joyful for you, it's joyful


for me. Oh, it's joyful for Jesus too.


Look at how the apostles were happy. I


mean, read Bible properly. There's no


pretense of No. So you want to make more


for your wellbeing, your happiness


and for the cause of God. For me, I


reverse it the other way for service


because priority everything God is


priority for service and for my


wellbeing. That's the same thing. That's


the same thing. Same thing I say to my


family. I say when I get to that level


where I can offer, it's easier when you


are climbing the ladder to fall down.


So daddy mommy understand when I get to


that level where I cannot fall again


that will not be an issue but I'm


climbing the ladder it's easier if you


all pull me down all of us are here now


nobody can help anybody again we looking


at each other you're looking at me I'm


looking at you too like where do we go


where do we go


to no let me put structures in place so


that I can't fall and while I'm doing


that this is the level of generosity


that I can afford not because I I don't


More than that it's just common sense


say oh yeah nice give you parents


that listen I explain myself so I do all


of that because the time is coming where


that will not be an


issue but for now and that for now is


for now still be strate no no this is


what I want what is uh look at that


first Timothy 6 writing to a pastor


which every believer should take as his


minister as his normal way of thinking


food say be content you know why because


at the core when you have made so much


money you will fall back to that same


conclusion which is what I'm saying


plenty riches go teach you that how much


can you eat those of you who have seen


big money how much do you


eat how much do you eat how much do you


eat even if you were born a glutton the


more money you make you realize that


sometime you skip some skip breakfast or


skip lunch or because you were pursuing


a deal that deal was how


much food there's more I'm not talking


about because you lost appetite all of


those things I know you have appetite


your phys all your your appetite is


working your the multivitamin or


whatever you are taking to boost your


appetite your appetite is fine but


there's more than that food


there people say how do big men leave


food in their plate you think they


wanted to be leaving the food on plate


is that there's more to life than that


chicken. You see the chicken once in a


while, they see it every is not an


issue. So there's no let me devoid it.


No, I'm not trying to put anybody down.


Please get the point of what I'm saying.


That is because wealth have now taught


them the thing the hard way that life is


more than this thing and life is more


than it. Life is more than it. Life is


more than it.


Life is more than all of those things.


Is it now wrong to have those things?


No. But to make it the essence of your


living, you will always be disqued. You


will always be in turmoil. Don't sign up


for frustration forever and now as a


Christian look at the people who did


ritual to make money now. Did they want


to die when it came time to die? Now two


two months ago they don't want to die


again. Why? Why? I thought you said it's


enough for me. It is never enough. Don't


make life about material pursuits. Don't


make life about So is material things


okay? Yes. But don't make it your life.


Don't make it the essence. So once I


know the true essence of things, the


essence of life I'm


okay. Look at how people put down people


who are not rich. And yet they love


Jesus. You to envy them to be like them.


You are putting them


down. They are rich towards God.


Because now we say win so you have not


won one soul for one year money perish


with you say say I put my money there


which put stupid money are you putting


there I put my money


there you care nothing about the cause


of Jesus that we didn't learn that from


the Bible people who put their money


also


went don't be learning from greedy


pastors read


scriptures people who put their money


also give people who pray also go not I


will pray for you I won't go no I pray


for you and also go I preach and if I


can't travel outside B city to go preach


I can't follow them for missions I can


do the in my street I


can walk with my s leaders about that


say ah I don't know what to say we did


we all know what to say at the first


that's why you have somebody you are


going


with over time you get good at it how


will it feel how will it


feel are you


saying when you win so you will realize


the joy So now you not realize that when


you feel that joy cannot be gotten with


alert and alert gives joy don't remove


it remember but when you start living


for the things of God I can't describe


how I feel when I get when I see


somebody healed of a disease I can't


describe how I feel it's enough that one


can last me for a month and I that's why


I'm always doing another one so that I


have enough have enough things to think


about and I'm happy I'm joyful Because


life is more than life is more about


what you do unto the Lord and onto


others. I put smile on that person's


face. I help that person achieve that


goal. Oh, I gave that person that wisdom


that was so needful. We ought not to


leave onto our self. Much of your soul


disqueness have come from the purpose of


life. Living onto yourself is sign up


for frustration. You will always be for


selfish me I


no life one to another God one to


another that's it when I realize that I


can now live properly and when I'm


living I now realize that all those


pleasures I put on myself is not found


in my living to go and living one to


another because in my living one to


another genuine friends are not bought


with


money because money day money all


A silver acquires friend now but a


friend is born in day of adversity. You


notice how proverbs define friendship is


when you don't things are not working


you know. So that means you don't buy


friends. A wealthy man has many friends.


Proverb said you know why he has many


friends. They are friends of his money.


Not his friends any nonsense. No we


don't buy friends. We don't do all. So


when people are sick and dying in the


hospital they not saying where's my


house put off of my bed. They say, "Did


he come? Did this person visit me?" We


care about our family. We want the


people we love around


us. Don't get old and learn it the hard


way. No. That's what scriptures are for.


We've learned the wisdom of God's word.


Amen. Number two, the answer of


hope. The answer of hope. Lamentation


322 to 24. It says, "My hope is I will


yet hope. The Lord is my portion."


The lamentations of


Jeremiah. So there's even a book called


lamentation. God knows that we lament.


Lamentation 3:22. It is of the Lord's


mercies that we are not consumed because


his compassions fail not. Verse 23. They


are new every morning. Great is thy


faithfulness. Verse 24. The Lord is my


portion. Seth my soul. Therefore will I


hope in him. So another way I can answer


my soul's disqueness is hope. By hoping


in God. Hope is expectation. Notice that


uh Psalm 42:5, Psalm 42:11, Psalm 43


verse 5, the instruction after he says


why thou cows down while with me say


hope thou in God. So that is the obvious


one. There's hope for a tree though it


be cut down it shall sprout again. Job


14:7. Ecclesiastes 9:4 for him that is


joined to all the living there is hope


for a living dog is better than a dead


lion. living


dog and lion is better than doggo but


the fact that the dog is alive is better


passion or die there's hope so that


means as long as there is tomorrow


there's hope and he now


says his compassions fade not his


mercies are new every morning that means


a new day is a new hope I'm still alive


and that's why when situations are tough


notice what Satan promises you kill


yourself you'll be better have I died


now help the


situation always know how to answer


Satan. Always know how to silence the


voice of the


accuser. Always know how to steal the


voice of the


avenger. Never lose your praise. Never


lose your wonder. Never have hope


expressions. Ah no. Some people do


thought replace thought. Stop learning


from psychologist and therapist. Learn


from the scriptures. Thoughts do not


replace thoughts. Now words break


thoughts. That's what you are doing when


you don't have Jesus in your life. You


can be doing thoughts replacing thoughts


that those things don't work. You need


to come for the next therapy session.


Words are greater than thoughts because


words are what I think about. So if I


want to break a thought very fast, I use


my mouth. Open my mouth in the name of


Jesus. You ought not to think like that.


This don't end. I'm not going to hear


your next whisper. It's everything will


just go silent immediately. Words break


thought in the twinkle of an eye. Words


are greater. That's why I say take no


thought saying because when the thought


has now entered your speeching you are


overwhelmed that's where depression all


those things come from because one


thought your thoughts have a voice you


are worried you know have you not seen


people along the road when they are


walking I've seen such many years ago


I've said that story say this my


daughter no keep me up she was just


walking on the road that's what she was


saying this my daughter no keep me up


another one doesn't happen again this my


daughter said she you think she wanted


people to know she was lamenting of her


daughter. She was full of matter. She


was full of


issue. Out of the abundance of the


heart, the mouth speaketh. What fool


your heart will come out from your


mouth. Amen. And when thoughts come like


that,


no, we use words to break the thoughts.


Is that okay? We don't voice it. We


don't give voice to our worry. No, we


give voice to our


faith. Believer's voice of victory.


Kenne give voice to our victory. We


don't give voice to our worry as a solid


one from that man of faith. Yeah. Give


voice


to say it, declare


it. And the answer of hope, what say


you? That hope is expectation. Hope is


the cure for every disquited or troubled


soul. That hope that is rooted in God's


word. It disarms anxiety.


said it uh uh God's wife said that when


that sickness was ravaging her hope I


trust in you oh God she was reducing by


the day but my trust is in you my hope


is in you that faithful date husband


prayed many persons prayed Taylor was


born walk into that room and all of a


sudden things have gotten but it lasted


for years yeah sometimes you don't just


know why these things is taking longer


than it should but my hope is in God and


she in her book she said hope is the


cure for this quietness. That's true.


That's true. Hope in God. I trust in


God. This the Bible is loud on hope.


Loud on hope. Loud on hope. Hope. I


trust God. People who have been through


things know the power of hope. The place


of hope. It may it


it say oh it's just a suiting relief.


It's just a temporary relief. But it's


every day I'm having hope. So that mean


it's a forever relief because I always


have expectation. I always have hope. I


always have hope. You say, "But sir,


hope deferred makes the heart sick."


Yes, but I always have hope. And those


are two different words for hope. Hope.


I know. Oh, my did not come to pass.


It's different from I say to my soul,


have hope. There's a different context.


Don't mix the two. That's not the same


hope deferred there. No, expectation


deferred. But when you say hope thou in


God, it is a charge to your soul. That


means always be in the situ in the


always be in that place where you will


yet praise him. Not yet mo


complain. God is not true. God's word is


not true. What God promised you is not


so. What God said to you is not so. No,


no, no. Answer all of those things with


the response of hope. And I much of what


we said when I was talking about the


answer of many meaning when we say the


answer using many to answer the


disqueness use hope to answer the


disqueness. We've said a lot about hope


already because we read the Psalm 42


Psalm 43. All right. So hope in


God. Hallelujah. Look at Psalm


31. Psalms chapter


31. Been on the Psalms for some time


now. Just refreshing


myself. Psalm 31 and verse


24. 31 and verse


24. It says, "Be of good courage and he


shall strengthen your heart all ye that


hope in the Lord." So that means hope


can strengthen your heart. Go backward a


bit. Psalm 27. Psalm 27 and verse4.


Psalm 27 and verse 14, wait on the Lord.


Be of good courage and he shall


strengthen thy heart. Wait, I say on the


Lord. So you see that it can strengthen


your heart. But we say strength for your


destiny. That's an anchor. I always have


hope. I'm always full of in the natural


this word some people call I'm positive.


Is it not better to be negative? But


it's beyond that. What we have is more


than positivity. I have hope and it


strengthens my heart. No, I don't


crumble as a pack of cards. No, I don't


No, I don't melt. I don't fade easily.


No, I'm sand. I'm a man for all season.


I'm built to last. A house built on the


rock. My trust is in God. My trust is in


God. That's a posture. That's uh a first


response that so no matter the storm,


the first thing is I know I my hope is


in God. So I'll come out for me. So I


immediately begin to deise the way out


of it. Not there whining crying thinking


that uh your whining and crying is going


to make things change. No. Be an adult.


Some people are just babies. They don't


want to grow up. Take


responsibility. Whining, crying or dying


doesn't change anything. Only left the


problem for other persons. If you have


any sense, it means you're a wicked


person because you have children. You


want to now die over an issue you are


going. you have killed your


children. So the man cry said they have


come to take my train as as


shorty no now that does not solve any


issue deal with the issue deal with the


issue and that's why I must start off


with


hope I say to my soul why all of that


inner turmoil I said no no no this is


not the


end this is not the


end so the psalmist solution to the


disquited so he said hope in God for I


shall yet praise


The word hope there sa s y a c h a l.


Sometimes the s is removed depending on


the uh Hebrew dictionary you are


using. The Lord is my portion ses my


soul. I will hope. I will cling to hope.


The steadfast mercies of God never fail.


A new day new possibilities.


Many times what people call luck is that


the person refuse to give up. Then all


of a


sudden now jam that person have prepared


for s opportunity now jam preparation


say the person was lucky but the person


could have given up


since hope is the cure. Look at those


three Hebrew boys. We know that our God


can deliver


us but even if he does not we still will


not bow. That is hope. Their hope is not


broken. They know they know where their


faith and their trust is but they are


not they are not serving God because he


go do not do this. No no I may I never


lose my wonder. May I never


lose. I I I keep my heart steadfast in


that which is absolute and unchanging


and unfailing. And I know what's


unfailing. His steadfast mercies, his


first. Even if I'm not sure of anything,


the bloody hands, the nails, the gap in


his hand, they nailed him to the cross.


That's enough to show he loves me. Look


at how far he will go. Then he says his


mercies are new every morning. That


means a new day. The same way how is God


merciful to the wicked man, giving them


time to repent. That's why they don't


die. That's why the police don't catch


them the first day.


God's mercy is seen in time. Look, I can


tell you a lot about that. Look at the


woman who has waited for many years to


have a child, 20 years or 10 years as


you have seen in some cases. Then she


wants to have a child. She starts with


who? Mercy. The mercy of God is always


seen in time. God has compressed time


for her now. And now in one go she have


had two which is almost the same thing


if you were splitting putting time


between children like that three years


four years between them. So she has two


at once or some you just see three at


once. Have you not seen stories like


that? I mean you think all of them are


faked stories abound like that. Some


triplet was one I saw 21 years I've not


had a child and they just did three at


once. Oh God faithfulness.


That's how sometimes you just get to


know that God is God.


His mercies fadeth not new every


morning. Great is thy faithfulness. So a


new day means we get to go again. So for


every day I will not be in negativity.


For every day this marriage, this


marriage you are sounding somehow. A new


day means we get to fix it. We get to


work on it. Oh, and you every time


whining,


dining, be full of


positivity. Make things


work. Stop always throwing away


everything that doesn't work. Amen. So


hope can strengthen your heart. And in


prayer, we find hope. Hope is for the


living. When we pray, that's why we


should pray. That's why in


prayer, prayer, we get hope.


hope, faith, love. These three things


are by they are for life. You cannot


remove it for life. But love is the


greatest motivator. So he says


love firstians 13. You can't remove hope


from life. Can't remove hope from life.


You can't remove love from life. You


can't remove faith from


life. Don't die. Hope is for the living.


So I hold on to my hope. So I may not


know how is going to change but I have


expectation. I'll be


patient. Everything does not happen


immediately now. Even delay should have


taught you a


lot. Everything do not happen


immediately. Everything not answer


immediately. A woman is pregnant. She


doesn't give birth immedately now. It


takes nine months. Don't say oh the


child has come. The child come out now.


in the seasons where things are not


going the way you wanted them to.


Everything must happen fast. Everything


in life does not happen fast. And that's


not because something is wrong. Some


natural things just don't happen


fast. Learn all of that and learn to


always have hope. Learn to always have


hope is the cure for that trouble,


disqued. So,


Amen. And in prayer, we get hope.


in


prayers. I don't know what is happening.


Learn to admit that you are not God. I


don't know what is happening but I trust


you God. Just pray those simple prayers.


Some people are always wondering, oh,


how else should I pray? That's a prayer.


Now, Lord, the darkness of this world is


slowly trying to seep into my soul, but


you are my God. Help me. Help me.


I find strength in you. Just pray simple


prayers and just walk away. Pray and


walk away. Walk away from those


situations. Live life. Just trust God.


Some people never get to see their


prayers answered because they always dig


it up every time as they pray and start


digging. Say, "Are you sure that was the


right? Are you sure God have read me?"


It's like planting something always


digging up what you have planted. It


will never grow. It will never grow.


Some things take time just like some all


trees don't grow the same way. Some take


time before it even sprout out of the


ground. Takes time before it spread out


of the ground. But those are the biggest


trees. Could just be that yours is the


always have hope. Say ah you're not


giving yourself hope. Hope is for the


living s living hope. Stop apologizing


for having hope. You say just encourage


yourself. Should I discourage myself? If


I discourage myself then I'll be like


you disqued so I can't discourage myself


and David encourage himself in the Lord.


Many times when you at the edge of your


breakthrough it's always when giving up


comes till two days later David is


king that so he could have even all the


mighty men that have raised have all


betrayed me now because they went to


stone him and David because all their


family everything has


gone but he rallied them again as a


leader


does and they push over take recover


then after that the next day Sing battle


he went to go and fight in his own side


and David is coming back and tell him


and now for you know three days later


he's


kingh why is he have not seen that s I


saw the people not they acting in Amazon


rubbish don't ever learn from a movie


when they doing Bible learning what they


not send you to learn say is Bible is


Bible is


Bible they take they even tell you they


take creative liberties too much and


sometime they take it too far take it


too


because they take it too


far. I was watching uh a friend of mine


said, "Are you not entertained?" I say,


"I'm not entertained. I am angry."


That's why I don't watch things like


this. How can I be entertained when they


are changing Bible story? I can't be


entertained. There is no entertainment


there. Say it's just the trailer. I say


I know they


watch. How can the spear touch David?


When Julia th


David like don't do that lie lie lie lie


and I'm not entertained though I'm no


entertain I'm


grieved I'm grieved because he's the


wisdom of this world that always tries


to hide God what kind of nonsense


because it's Goliath because he's big


that's why I fell once not that's how I


also see life because the situation is


too big so it is one stone I will


use you know you know that you're not


encouraging me you are discouraging me


but Again, I don't learn from movies.


They're just for entertainment. But that


one doesn't entertain me. So you go vex


me. I'm in control for God's sake. I


have the remote. I have the phone. I


have the subscription. The vest control.


No, just remove


it. So you don't go wrong with


Jetly. You just know trick. We


just I'm entertained.


Don't go wrong see the man flying I know


human beings don't fly is


enough you are watching


say that's how you ought to love


me I beg I


beg I


beg I hope you know this man is divorced


three times we all watch this fil in


peace cuz if the guy was so great


walking alone he would not div it's a


script I beg you let's not fight over


script you need to learn to have


conversations like that with


people a script a


script all right doesn't mean you


shouldn't enjoy each other that's not


don't quote me or please I don't know


what you are going


through that you want to use because I


just saw somebody say when I get home


I'll tell her ah


The answer of hope,


please. Hope is the cure for every


disquited or troubled soul. Is that


good? Number three is the answer of


wisdom. Answer of wisdom. Wisdom.


Wisdom.


Wisdom. Wisdom is the principal thing.


Go after


wisdom, wisdom,


wisdom. You know, Proverbs said that now


wisdom is the principal thing. Proverbs


4:7, therefore get wisdom and with all


thy getting understand. So wisdom is


very principal on this earth because


wisdom helps you live life where so one


of the Yeah, that's what it means by


wisdom is the princip principal thing in


this life. One of the greatest


principles you can ever have principal


principles you can ever have is to


always have wisdom. You'll get far in


life just by having


wisdom. And that word wisdom there's the


Hebrew word choke man c h o o k m a h


which deal with a skill your ability to


interpret things well to cover all


perspective. You now have a skill of


life which is what the Hebrew call


wisdom. He has the skill of life or like


the Hebrew rabbis we say the breath of


the Lord he has fed on the Torah. So God


in turn has breeded into him wisdom. The


answer of the tongue is from God.


Preparation of the heart belong to man


but the answer of the tongue is from


God. The mouth of God. Wisdom comes from


the mouth of God. As we feed on God's


word, even if you don't get to learn


many natural things, as you feed on


God's word, he breathes back into you,


which is in meditation. As I meditate on


his word, he breathes back on me and I


get wisdom. All of those things I've


been saying are all quotes. So, proverb


dead there. If they can help you, put


them up, they help you. But wisdom is


very, very important. Wisdom comes from


the mouth of the Lord. God gives wisdom.


Look at how Solomon got


wise. So wisdom is for the humble.


Wisdom is for the humble. I'm but a


child. I don't know how to go in or come


out. Now this is the 13th year I've been


praying that prayer. I have not missed a


day once to pray that prayer. Lord, I'm


but a child. You say, but you're not a


child again. I still pray it. Still pray


it. Immediately I discovered that


prayer. I pray it. Lord, I'm but a


child. I don't have to go in or come


out. Help me. Help me. It's an everyday


prayer. Help me with wisdom. Help me


with wisdom. Help me. Help me. Then I


answer in faith. I know how to do what


to


do. I always know how to do what to do


in the name of Jesus. Release your faith


also in that area. But wisdom helps.


Wisdom helps. Many of the challenges


people have, it's just a wisdom


issue. It's just a wisdom issue. Tell


your neighbor, it's a wisdom


issue. Wisdom. It's a wisdom issue.


It's a wisdom


issue. The Lord gives


wisdom. Proverbs 2:6, if any man lack


wisdom, James says, let him ask, wisdom


come from the mouth of the Lord. That


was the text I was looking for. I just


read. But James say, if any man, let him


ask God. So we can always ask God for


wisdom. And that is spiritual wisdom.


And that is all perspective wisdom


because wisdom is earthly, sensual,


devilish. There are different kinds of


wisdom. the wisdom that is now of God.


And God's wisdom is for life, I'll have


better interpretation of things. Amen.


Also, I don't throw away uh the wisdom


of this word. As long as it's not


against


God. Did you get it? So, that's why you


brush your teeth. You don't say, "Where


is it in the Bible?" You need a Bible


verse to brush your teeth. You need a


Bible verse to eat food. You'll


die. See, if I don't find 20 Bible


verses on this, I will not wash my


clothes.


pig. That's all we ought to say. We


don't need a Bible verse. We just answer


the question, you are a pig. Say Bible.


Give me 12 Bible verse that I should


wash my clothes. No, you don't need a


Bible verse. Pig. Next answer. Don't be


stressing yourself. Say I'll give you


40. Don't give


40. Common


sense. The words of the immortal one.


Wala you are immortals.


Legendary singing. So the answer of


wisdom, you listen to those things. What


if I


do? I don't. But what if I do? That's


you are taking life too


seriously. I don't listen to things that


are vulgar. That's the important thing.


I've told you before what is secular?


What is listen to things that are


against what I stand for? Please listen


to good music and they sing better music


than all this your butter my sugar my


teeth all this need centered song that


you call gospel songs which are not


gospel songs everything is


always we go we go everything is always


dream it's always looking like you know


entertain it's like it's like worship to


god now they have brought different


songs


inside joy is Call me joy call


me. So people will not die.


Well it's a figure of speech. I


mean what is that one inside church


again? You can as well just sing Lambo


inside church too. Since everything that


trends is in church you will hear it and


say not be that inside church you are


singing.


Wow. As I say, it's high praise. It's


high praise. It's high praise. Is high


praise. Go to school. High praise. You


think high praise is shouting praise. Oh


my lord


God. High praise. You have carried


chair. You have injured your neighbor.


Now we have your neighbor. You swing


chair


Chris say I


crazy. No, you the


crazy say I crazy. You enco yourself.


You are actually


crazy. Say I crazy. Now God I pray. You


are actually crazy. It's not not be say


I crazy. See, but that's what David did.


No, that's not what David


did. David did not care about his


wealth, his standing in his worship of


God. So that means he danced and rejoice


before God regardless of his. That's why


his wife, which notice how David, you


must know how to answer. When his wife


said, he said, "Is it


not God who made me king over your


father?" your father that's meaning of


your father


David he has lines so you know what he


wanted to say was your father so he just


found a way around and say your father


yeah think I don't know what you are


trying to


do and that's how he looked away from


that woman and she was burying all the


days of her life forgotten that she is


also a priest


so they did sell her off to another man


but it didn't


matter didn't matter contrary winds blow


And in his disdain, in his state of his


heart, because he's a priest, a king, a


prophet, that look meant everything


because she mocked him and he said, "You


have brought yourself low." He said,


"No." He said, "Then in his answer, he


said, I will even yet be more base


before God." That means I will not


regard any state. I'll lay it all.


That's that's the believer. It's not.


Don't use that verse to justify our


decrease. God doesn't want us to be


crazy. No, no, no. Should you dance?


Yes. Is there a Christian dance? What is


that? Please dance. You want to dance?


Don't is Christian dance. Christian


dance is


this. Just go back 1967. Then you see


this. It's also MJ


[Music]


Jackson. Calm down. What dance say


Christian dance what are you what are


you saying just dance if you want to


dance I


beg sing to your God praise his name


what what determines gospel or not


gospel is the lyrics and that's why the


lyrics are more important to us not not


the beat that they are playing say that


beat is from


hell after all it's from hell rose


cannot frighten us now. Where shall you


flee? His presence is there too. So


don't come down say no what I'm trying


to say now to say we have brought Bible


now to also hook that position. Wisdom


is


important. So we have to learn how to


live in two words. For morning for


example, m o n e y for morning for


example, do natural things like somebody


say I don't just know the way life is.


I'm just tired. I'm tired. I'm tired.


Say


okay. I know you're tired. I know you're


wanting to give up. Do you have a job?


No. Do you have a business? No. So learn


this skill.


No. We are tired of you too. It's not


just you are tired. We are tired of you.


Ah because we want to help you. He that


hiding his neck will be destroyed


without remedy. He say money is not


coming. No money is coming. Keep


marketing all of those things that you


used to get money from. Market it again


and again and again and again and again


and put so much pressure or attention on


it. It will it will work. It will work.


And also as you are trusting God we


didn't say remove that but do what you


should do in the


natural. Maybe somebody say oh that


50,000 is too small for me with your


unskilled labor. It's unskilled


labor. They say go to school. Education


has scammed. School come. Adulthood has


scam. Education has scam. Everything is


scam. Have you not been scammed now?


I've been scammed now. Now 50,000 is not


enough for you since you don't


have. It's not an insult. It's the


truth. And because you don't say that to


your friends, you don't say that to


people you know, that's what encourages


the foolishness. Why should you not be


content with 50k? Say, "Ah, the things


are too bad." But that's what we can


pay.


You say it's not fair. It's not fair. We


are going you employ you employ people.


You see those same people who say it's


not fair. It's not fair. When they


employ people, they can't pay them


too. You mean I pay people well? I don't


have an issue with paying people well.


I'm not trying to justify myself. I know


enough scriptures to not but starting


point depend on the kind of business.


Some people don't even think can this


business make this money? Can this


business make this money that we are


so oh I can then go for another one no


but there skilled and unskilled labor


always know that. So this kind of amount


that you are looking for then you are


going to stay alone. These are just


common sense.


How can somebody make 50k and they live


alone? Don't be go die alone. One day


just wake up die. Can you stay alone?


Then you say it's our ebo brothers now.


I don't want no can be five in one room


now, four in one room. I cannot do that


nonsense. You have pride with


poverty. You can't live with somebody


too evil. Only


you scarcity was not enough. You had


pride to it. Ah


no. Because if you can't pay your rent


in two months, then you you living a


house too big for you. These are common


financial principles. you learn so that


there's no weight there. Then also you


learn to remove it every month divided


by 12 you know okay it's just a fraction


here so because it's uh you have a a


house of 120,000 which still exist now


you look for nearest to vote are you a


banker you looking for a house to live


you close to with 50k that they are


paying you looking for house close to


vote it's life you just give yourself


unnecessary heartache why do you want to


live near road people that have more


money that live near so they can quickly


go and make


What are you going to say near road


for? Trek out. Trek out. So as you are


trekking, you are thinking. Trek


out. Then I say a lot of things like


this. You think I'm just throwing


banters but I making you think they say


I need to live near road do waiting. Why


not living near road? Because you say


there's no cheap house. Now you go look


for near road now how day it cheap go


inside you see house cheap you want live


near


road I don't know how people don't have


money they can't tre what is happening


there's a how did you even get used to


that comfort life without money say just


it's far I just have to


enter oh when you don't have money it


now becomes your healthy routine you


just tread


Just like all these our people are going


to gym that's your you just dream it


out


it say because it's in phases then as


you are doing that say I'll not be here


not I'll not be here you want to rob


from your madam you will go jail and I


will agree I say pastor what do you have


to say I say lock her up throw away the


key not that typo of I will not be here


next year you want to rob your madam


not that type. But realize there's


skilled and unskilled labor.


So you have to do something to make


money. Can God meet our needs? Yes. But


doesn't he exempt us from now? He met


your need once in a month. You de vex.


But he met your need. Met your


need. Say ah. But that's why you should


have fasted the rest of the days that


your needs were not met since you want


to make it about God. common sense,


food, all of these things. You see, but


close the quote Bible verse. Everybody


knows it. Everybody knows that verse


you're trying to quote. How does God


clothe the lilies, clothe all of those


things?


How are you here? Yes, sir. So, let's


answer the


questions. So, the answer of wisdom. So,


for


money, do what you need to do in the


natural. That is


legit. Say, "Oh, there's no money in my


hand." Where were you expecting the


money before? Sir, you are a t. It's


good. We tell people that if you don't


want to work, why do you say a 19 year


old say I'm I'm done with life. I'm


tired. I'm just broke at 19. Your father


failed you. You are tired of life at 19.


Never start. If you use hand, count your


age. You are tired of what?


You can use hand to count your age. You


are tired of what? I'm done. I'm done.


17. I'm done. I'm done with iPhone 15.


I'm done. I'm tired of


life. iPhone


15 with a cost


brain. I've sold that phone. I


have buy the truth and sell it not so


that you have sense. I'm tired of life


at


15. That's all the identical crisis we


used to have when we teenagers. So which


one is I'm tired of life? It comes with


this new I'm tired of life at 15. You're


tired of life. Say all my all your


mates. There are many of your mates that


are dead. Why are not motivated to go


and


die? All


right. It's true. Now you say all


my dead why not say tonight I die. All


my mate are dead. 15 years I'm tired of


life because of what? Say I couldn't buy


iPhone


15. Is that part of age


requirement? So when you get to 16, you


ought to have an for 15 iPhone for


16. Is it an age requirement?


Say


no. When you want those things, you work


harder. That's why we work hard. If by


working hard, say that to our mother,


say that to our


fathers. Stop justifying evil. Is say


that to our father. Say that to our


mother. You know how honorable your


parents were. Give birth to four


children. Look at you now. Just one


child you have is hard to take care of


them. Then you you dare say your father


was not good, your mother was not good.


You go old. You go learn


life. You thankful for the parents you


had that put your needs over their


needs. that put your priorities over


their priorities that your father never


bought a new cloth for as long as you


were. Look at the things they never did


so that you would now you now you want


to get everything get everything you


have sold your children's future because


of your pocket just to look good for


who wear your cloth more than once is a


proof that is


yours I be say I don't know why I I


can't wear one dress four times wear it


50 times it's your


cloth you're the same person now that


say wants life has yellow trouser.


Everybody knows to buy black trouser to


start life, you


know, because because it's it's it's


about ste composure, whatever you call


it, poise,


ambience,


packaging, yellow trouser. We thought


that was enough. Then you now had purple


trouser. What are we going to combine it


with, sir? After purple


trouser, red


trouser priest


of no black, no blue, no no navy blue,


no brown, no ash,


no you didn't see all of those things.


They're the same way we not give you


100,000. That's why you misuse it. is


the same brain that did not tell you to


buy black trouser. The same brain that's


how when one million is given to you


will squander it. Look at people how


they handle. I I I I speak with


investors a lot and real investors, not


comedians saying they investors, not


sabi


one, whatever that means. I didn't want


to say the real ones they don't sue


me. Oh god, I think about everything.


It's good to have lawyers as friends.


think about everything. So back to what


I was


saying, real investors are not impressed


by you snapping picture with a plane


like you are a cockpit cleaner every


time recycling pictures of airports like


you work as a cleaner in the


airport. Real investors look at how you


manage funds. The real investors they


don't look at you where to borrow car to


snap picture they know that you are


going to use their money to buy car they


won't give you real investors not I'm


telling you not this because you will


see it as you get older people interact


they will look at your management look


at sometimes where we even get to


investigate people's


uh account statements why all these


frivolities


Say I I I I what I need is a 100 million


that 100 million don't move


30 joy call me that 30 million you know


that joy that is


coming by one ride to pepper


them pepper poverty have you not learned


enough no don't prove a point to anybody


so wisdom I know what I need to do in


the natural so how do money come money


is in the hands of men Money is in


institution, money is in ideas, money is


in many things and I do all of that I


have value. The value economy is what


created money in the first place. So if


I meet the needs of others, if I can


solve the problems of others, if I can


offer value to others, I always have


money. I you know those things in the


natural saying what are you now doing?


Say no, I trust God. Stop it. Stop it. I


didn't say stop trusting God. Don't


trust God like that. That's a foolish


way of trusting God. So for money, work


hard. So wisdom. So many of these souls


disqueness. Like I


said, look at the person is not happy.


Oh there's no food to eat. So I ask say


I live alone. Say how much are you paid?


Say 50,000. You leave alone. The person


was surprised that I was


surprised. How can you live alone? So


what if you die in the night? He said


you live alone with 50k.


Then you say the economy is tough.


That's the reason why you should not


have lived


alone. Then you have a flat only


you. Then how much you earn in a month?


100k. 100k went to go and rent flat only


you in a


flat. Big boys are cheating. You are not


a big


boy. I'm not a big boy. I'm not a big


boy. That's why you are crying tomorrow.


Say show


glass. Every day you come with new


philosophies. What is that? No, you


learn


it. Look at people who are not. They


know oh three of them. You are not


married. You are not making so much


money. You are staying alone.


You


want say Google be careful express no


now you should be falling in that


flat that way you notice that in one


month you have paid the rent no pressure


go pressure and say God God I cry to you


God cry to you too I say I have


sense I have


sense I cry to you oh Lord let the world


know ask me where my God


God said so they will tell you now you


will not hear that one and say


unnecessary pressure people put


themselves


underne so wisdom tell your neighbor


wisdom


go after


wisdom so to be disquited to be troubled


distraught worried upset over


circumstances one cannot control and


with wisdom we can control many things


with wisdom look at for example people


who live their life with compare


Comparison is that's a thief of


happiness. Now that is one major way


people are disqued within them.


Comparison. There's always going to be


something you don't have that somebody


else have. Calm


down. Calm down. Not go kill


yourself. Do better than


me. Go and do better than her. Now you


want to do better than I understand. So


she should die.


She is happy. How come? May God take her


place for


her. I use the ones that are but they


are more evil


comparison. It's a thief of joy and


happiness. Always comparing but you can


compare yourself but you cannot say how


many hours does he work?


You can't compare say how many books


does he


read those


ones. It has never motivated you. What's


always motivating you is is the is the


things we have. Is the good things that


people have that you don't have as if


they stole their own? When will you No,


no, no, no. Don't do Don't live life


like that. Read books, interact with


people, glean wisdom everywhere you can


glean wisdom.


say they that compare themselves with


another are not wise. That's what Paul


says. So and wisdom and one of the core


things that makes people a bringer of


this quietness is comparison.


Comparisons look at what this man is


doing with are you married to the man?


Look at what this woman is doing. Are


you are you the wife? Look at what look


at look inside your house. Ah the eye of


a fool is in the ends of the


world. Every look look to be content


with eyes everywhere. Wisdom is for him


that has


understanding. The answer of wisdom, use


wisdom to answer the disqueness. Even


the same thing for relationships. Learn


how to dwell with


people. There is no human relationship


that gives you unchanging or lasting


happiness.


None. None. And that's common sense to


know that so that in fact if this person


enter my life now will always be happy


what if the person


die happiness have come people die also


too people change people die so that's


already


unpredictability people don't live life


like that people change people


die don't expect anybody to be God and


even God people get angry with God and


you think you will not be angry with


your say if you love me we should never


be angry with each other you didn't love


your father be didn't love your mother


now man you want key you they look for


and woman you want key you they look for


it's common sense 101 which one is if


you love me we we are not ready for the


the the place of interaction dialogue


where we get to understand our


viewpoints which one is don't do all of


that any small thing you love you don't


love Any small thing you don't you don't


submit to me. Any small thing no you


don't you don't bow before


me I live


forever sorry I'm a wife as I come I


live forever I have come again your


lawful subject is before you until


submission wear weary


you say it does not honor me honor me


honor me give me my honor that's why I


blow large for eye now I calm down doing


going too


Amen. Learn how relationships work.


Healthy relationships. And we have


teachings on how to build healthy


relationships. Build healthy


relationships. It's not a gift of the


spirit in the name of Jesus. Oh, I


receive great friends. And why you are


toxic? Why you are poison? No. He who


wants a friend show himself friendly.


say I don't just mingle with


people may be a hired


killer. No serial killers are like that.


All


right.


Narcissistic


tendencies, horrible tendencies creep in


darkness. Since you always like


darkness, you may be a


witch. I have to put that in now. One


long


[Laughter]


se I don't mean all those things. All


those are just communication teasers


just to get your brain to jot back to


position like oh this how to think all


right so a thief of happiness or bring


out this quietness is


comparison avoid unhealthy gist all


these things weigh against your soul


don't entertain it look at how people


just like I was telling you some people


say marriages are not working marriages


are not working you are reading say why


the marriage not work you want your to


work why of the one that


work I don't have time to be learning


anything negative say these people have


never clicked it say this one already


know the man is nothing to write to me


about so she married him


oh he's innocent not face I don't want


to watch I don't want to view


[Music]


it starts with a end with y to z we


don't


All these issues will always be there.


You are watching, reading, reading


now. Maybe my husband is doing maybe my


wife is doing


it. I don't want to live long. Give


yourself unnecessary


heartache. You are feeding. That's why


you anticipating even when there's


nothing you are creating it because you


have failed on


junk. Of course, we know trust is


broken. It's hard to repent. We


understand all of that. But beyond that,


there are things to deal with. Don't


feed on. Same thing. There's this


article can take it. I know they watch.


I know they read. I know they listen. So


they all fake. All pastors are fake.


What am I watching it for? Am I fake?


What am I watching it for? I'm fake now.


Let the fake ones watch it and


entertained. So they see how to be fake.


Am I trying to be fake? Why should I now


watch it to learn how to be fake? I


don't want it. When you realize that


your mind your emotions out guard your


heart the issues of life you protect


your heart to not just be exposing to


any junk you it's not a does be some of


you you overthink just one word you have


thought it into 50


ways kill yourself with unnecessary


overinking could it be more he didn't


pick my cup he also did not see it why


did one enter your


He's angry with me. This is the second


day. Call


again. If you were not told, he say I


What are


we? What are we? And this morning, what


are we? What are we? What are we? Every


man that call your number, what are we?


Just the next the next day you have


chattered. What are


we? I was too fast for some persons


there. What are we? What are we? What


are we? What are


we? So what are we


now? Hey, what are


we? What do you want us to


be? So that the foolishness will now


show. I thought in one day you


thought well with your soul.


in one day just have the number of 90.


What are


we?


Wisdom.


Wisdom. Go after wisdom. Understands how


relationship works. Look at friends.


Look at family. Issues come up. Then you


tell yourself that I I thought it is


relation. Stop living in a dream world.


People have issues. Issues come up. If


issues come up with family, come up with


friends. Don't you think it will come up


with the most closest of all


relationship which is the marital one so


calm


down have unrealistic


expectations even God people have issue


with God as good as God is so calm down


so are you sure you are putting things


in


perspective the answer of wisdom many of


the disquitness is just lack of


wisdom Psalm 90:12 teach us to number


our days that we may apply our heart to


wiso one day at a time learn to live


cycle constantly redeeming the time


because the days are evil one day at a


time and that's with wisdom wisdom is


for everyday living so it will help you


and that everyday is where troubles come


so with wisdom I know what this one not


rich that's why sometimes go wild and


you realize that that is overwhelming


you is no issue it's no issue now you


just let something that is one wisdom


have solved


No, don't set unnecessary expectations.


They make you


unhappy. Learn to take your eyes off on


important


things.


Hallelujah. Number four, the answer of


peace. Philippians chapter


4. The answer of


peace. Because when people lose their


peace is they hold this quietness. Is


that not


so of


peace and Philippians 4 and verse


7 or let's read 16-7 be careful for


nothing but in everything by prayer and


supplication with thanksgiving let your


request be made


kn and the peace of God which passes all


understanding shall keep your heart. So


let the peace of God keep your heart


shall keep your heart and mind through


Christ. And the peace of God, this peace


here is not a passive


state. It's not just about avoiding


anxiety or feeling calm, but about a


profound trust in the power of God. Is a


guard for the heart and the


mind. So it's a protective force. Guard


your heart and the peace of God that


passes shall keep your heart. Keep that


word keep there is the same word to


protect to guard. Peace is the one


guarding my heart. So also while that


discreted within me that means something


my peace was attacked that's why my soul


is within me. So I bring my peace


back. Hallelujah.


So the peace of God is not simply a


feeling of tranquility.


is an active force that guards the heart


and mind is rooted in the reality of


Jesus's reign and the hope of a new


creation. When we know that then we have


peace look at how the in numbers 14


chapter 13 we have gone they have gone


to spy the land and they were all


discouraged broken that numbers 14 verse


21 as I live say the lord all the air


shall be filled with the


glory it's just one land but now talking


about all the earth look at how issues


in his response to them. He say as I


live so it's not just that you will have


this land all the earth will be


mine that that's where peace come from


peace come in where I realize that the


earth is the lord's peace come from that


why the gospel gives us peace that's why


say think on these things that's what


we're talking about so there's the peace


of god there is the peace that you can


get from terror peace but the peace of


god is from understanding the gospel


understanding what jesus means to you


the the reign of Jesus, the new heavens


and new earth. Understand just like we


taught in walking salvation when I


understand that it brings peace to my


heart. Peace to my heart. I'm not trying


to change things


that so that uh


disqued a stay commotion turbulence


troubled and that quietness can come


from anxiety, from stress, from


overwhelming circumstances as we said.


So we do not just have peace nor do we


have


joy when we put all of these things


based on circumstances. I'll explain


that


again. Notice Paul said he has learned


to be content. So that means he wasn't


born that way. There are things we


learn because many persons see peace joy


as just the absence. What about it as


the presence? We always like defing


things. Oh peace is the absence of this.


Not about the presence of not just the


absence of because it can be peace can


is first the presence of then is now the


absence of not absence to presence


presence then absence. We put the two


together then you have peace you have


joy. Then we bring it to circumstances


where we talk about everyday joy and


happiness. Why the Christian never do


depression and why a believer in God's


word can never do all those down that


depression. I'm finished. I'm I'm done


for. No, never. No matter the


circumstance or


situation


because happiness, joy, all of these


things are based on our view of


things. Don't get happiness from things


you can't


control. Don't get happiness from things


you can't control.


Don't get happiness from things you


can't


control. And you know there are also few


things in life you can


control. That's why you should determine


your expectation then manage them


properly. And one way to determine your


expectations and manage them properly is


to put your joy or happiness in God and


under your control. Simple. You will


never lose your peace or your joy. Put


your peace and your joy in


God and under your control. And that


under your control is based on the


expectations you set. So how much makes


you happy? If not, you will never be


happy. Put it under your control. Put


things under your control. So what can I


now do? Just like I practically was


telling you guys on Wednesday. So what I


would learn it so because of that I


should now be broken. and I should now


be scattered and confused. No, I can't


do anything to change it right


now. So, what can I now do? I will not


allow it now overwhelm me and mess me up


and there's no joy, no happiness again


with me over what I cannot


change. I didn't say you can't be happy


in material things. So, please let's not


lie to oursel. I've already told you


before. If they increase your salivity


by 50%, won't you be


happy? Which happiness is there that you


can't pay your bills? Which kind of


happiness is that one? I'm just happy I


can't pay my bills. What kind of


madness? We should cancel you that


you're not thinking, well, you should


not be happy that you can't pay your


bills now. No.


However, put happiness under. So what am


I now doing? Put happiness, your joy,


happiness, peace. Let it be under what


you can. So you say it's in God. It's


now a fruit of the renewed man or fruit


of your spirit. A fruit. So it's in God.


God has given us peace. But things can


steal our peace. So he said my peace I


give not as the word give. So he has


given us


peace. Notice peace calms the storm. So


it's not just about quietness. For peace


to calm storm is stronger than storm. So


peace is a force. So there is a strength


is the presence. So what is the peace?


The presence of Jesus in my life calms


every situation. It keeps my heart when


I realize that it is me and Jesus before


every mountain. Me and Jesus before


every storm. Me and


Jesus. Learn it


to so you can manage your expectations


because if you don't manage your


expectations, you will never be happy or


joyful in this life. And a heart of joy


and contentment is peace. So he said,


"Use peace to answer this quietness. Use


peace to answer


it. Put your your peace in God, your joy


in God. The joy of the Lord is my


strength. Put your peace, your trust in


God. Let that keep your heart. They


shall be led forth with peace. Peace is


like an umpire. Let peace keep your


heart. Let it keep your heart. Let it


keep your soul. Let the peace of God


keep you. Let it guide you. And what is


that peace of


God? Because of Jesus, we have peace


with God. What is peace of God? What is


that? Uh the Greek word is Irene. E I R


E N


E. That state of tranquility. But that


state of tranquility is a power is that


we have been reconciled back to God. The


core of peace is that it say in in


making peace with we have been


reconciled back onto God is that oneness


with God where things are at peace there


is unity there's union you cannot remove


peace that's why in a peace accord they


want unity unity union so you talk about


peace you can't remove so the core of


why I have peace is the presence of the


lord in my


life so even Jesus was in a storm but he


didn't lose his peace


So it's not there's no storm means I


have peace. Even in storm I still have


peace because the presence of Jesus is


enough. So when you learn that the


presence of Jesus in your life is enough


and also the fact that you make sure in


the natural circumstances you can manage


them. How? By having realistic


expectations. Sir, so you are saying we


should not dream big. Why do you always


hear things canceling out


things? And I dare say if thinking big


is making you not have peace, obviously


that's a product of foolishness. Then


don't think big since that's your own


lot in life. Since you don't want to


think big since because why are all


things always fighting? Think big. Oh


why thinking big for you is always 24


hours. Think big in life. You went to go


and think big in 24 hours. If I don't


have 100 million in 24 hours, I failed.


What structures are in place to have 100


million in 24 hours? Say Yahweh is


enough. Oh fool, you have laid up.


There's enough Bible verse for that kind


of person. That's a stupid way of


thinking and


living. Realistic expectation say we are


thinking big.


Why did you put a timeline for 24 hours


say anything is possible? Who does not


know before that anything is possible?


Is that the issue we are having here? Or


you are setting yourself up for


heartbreak. Then the next day say I


really thought I really thought you


really overthought. That's why after


talks about peace, he say whatever


things are lovely, whatever things are


just think on these things. So I know


where to focus my thought


on peace in circumstance. So anxiety,


stress, overwhelming circumstances, what


do I do? I answer it with what? Peace.


So no fear, no anxiety. Be anxious for


nothing but in everything by prayer and


supplication. Remove the anxiety, remove


the worry, remove the


tension, anything that is preventing


you. So that peace of God is a


protective force. It gu the believer's


thought and emotions. It prevents us


from being overwhelmed by fear, anxiety,


and despair. Is that what you want? Then


let the peace of God keep your heart.


Let the peace of God keep your


heart. May I've learned now to remove my


peace from the hands of anybody. It's


only in God and under my control.


Nothing. Ah no no no no no no no no no


no. You will lose your peace for


nothing. Before you know you are I don't


I can't live life in that kind of broken


state in that despotent state where I


failed everything is all over. No no no


no no. Don't do that. Put it in God and


put it under your control. So so


immediately things are looking somehow


God gives me the answer of peace. I


because he's with me. So I hear his


voice. There's a calmness that silences


every issue. His presence. Then all of a


sudden we start eliminating the things.


There's now the absence. I start with


the presence. Then we move to the


absence.


Hallelujah. God is in me. Even


unforgiveness can eat your peace and


joy. That's why I'm say we don't forgive


him. You know, go kill yourself.


Unforgiveness is not about if the person


have told you sorry. Those things


overwhelm your heart. Remove it. Why do


we forgive? It's not because the person


have said sorry. Most importantly, he


says we forgive because remember God has


forgiven us in Christ Jesus.


Reconcilation is from


forgiveness. Reconciliation is based on


truth. That's why the sins of the old


world is forgiven. But they are not new


creation. They have to accept it. You


have to come to terms. So I say forgive


me. And that's sometimes people do that


thing a lot. Maybe because of the kind


of relationships they have


had. Even me when I have some issues


with people and they say sir forgive me.


I'm like forgive you want to forgive


forgive forgive. If you have


unforgiveness problem deal with your


unforgiveness problem. This is not a


forgiveness issue. This is an issue of


you making it look like I can't relate


with you again based on this and this.


So let me know you are now somebody like


this or you are working on that. You are


telling me forgive. You see I tell you I


have hardness of heart. If you have that


problem, don't put all of us in the same


boat with you. I can drop something a


twinkle of an eye because I know how


much God has forgiven me in Christ


Jesus. I can't hold anybody's matter


like that in my heart. The power of


forgiveness come from what Christ has


done for us. When I realize that he also


has forgiven me. That's what the Paul


episode is full of verses like that.


Colossians, Philippians, all of them


that teaches forgiveness because of what


Jesus have done for us. So why I'm able


to forgive others? He said I don't let


it because things are poisonous. It will


poison my heart. It will poison my soul.


Remove those poison from your


heart. I owe all men


forgiveness. But I don't owe all men


access into my life. No, no, no, no, no.


And that access into your life is on the


basis of trust. It's on the basis of the


fact that we we walk with truth.


Reconciliation is based on truth. When


Paul wrote to Fimmore, he didn't say put


it under the bridge, just forgive him. I


know he says he if he has there's there


was truth I've taught you that before


reading the book on reconciliation it's


not just let's ignore as if nothing


happened we can't do that if you want to


be insane we will not follow you we


can't do as if nothing happened


something happened we can't bury it


under we can't bury it will come back


again let's just bury it no it will keep


burying things will keep coming out


let's deal with


it and how do we deal with it confess


your fault one to Another those of you


who have mastered the art of gossip, you


have an issue with somebody, you want to


go and tell on that person. Long may you


rain? Wickedness, evil things. You never


dealt with the issue oneonone with the


person, you are telling that person.


Then an issue is being dealt with, you


go on that person. Very evil way of


living. Matthew 18, you have your


brother have an against you. Tell him to


his face. You you have C D E


F that's gossip. That's ungodly. You


like to spread things around then why


just you now just one issue already


begging please don't tell anybody let


nobody know now just one issue you have


told the whole world are you sure you


will live life if you were God you won't


answer anybody's prayer you won't be


there for


anybody learn mercy and grace and those


of you that have been shown mercy and


grace please be merciful and gracious to


others common sense way of living amen


Amen.


The answer of peace, unforgiveness, all


those things. Dist will never trust him.


I will never go calm down. Oh, people


die for less. So, putting your your


heart was not designed to to live with


such


tension. You're carrying too much


weight. You're carrying too much weight.


The heart was not made for those things.


So, no, leave me. So I always tell


people what has the cry solved now the


same way husband and wife issue say we


will not talk I always say it this is


just being stupid how does he solve the


issue now because for the matter to be


resolved are we not going to talk if we


are still going to


talk to say to people let's tell people


let's talk because I always say to


husbands and wives say no no let me get


out get out I don't want to talk I don't


want to talk how do we now solve the


issue they just say You are not for you


don't want any issue to ever be solved.


Let's know that you are a witch. Let's


know that you a nagging person is better


to in the desert that to dwell with you.


Better to dwell on the rooftop or just


go put bed for


roof.


No because you talk about things say no


I don't want to talk about it. I want to


stop the foolishness. You're getting


old. I don't want to talk. I don't want


to talk. I don't want to talk about


build healthy relationship and healthy


life. Your emotions are important. Don't


give devil in your life. Any small


thing, your heart is not a dust beam.


Protect it and guard it. Your heart is


your singular most important instrument


on this earth. Protect it. Without it,


no no no life. Oh, the issues of life


come from there and you just let


anything get to your heart like that.


No, I have this thing I want to tell


you. I'm not


interested. Have you told the person?


You say no. So why are you telling me?


Do I have the power to tell the person?


say I just feel like you should know and


that's all gossipy be I don't want


know I think she is just sorry I can't


judge people's motive I can only talk


about what they have done I'm not God


it's God that cause the secret of the


heart I can't be talking about people's


motive said no I said sorry the spirit


of sin and has not come upon me I'm not


walking by the sign of spirit now if I


am then I can discern the spirit but


this is not the case I can't be


following you to be passing sentence so


that's how he is. That's I'm not in the


spirit. I'm talking the flesh right now.


I can't say that's how the person is.


Learn those things to allow you live


your life with


peace. What are they saying about me?


You go die. Oh, you die quick. What's


happening over there? Live your


life without tension and pressure. And


that disquitess that you are having, you


go carry too much excess


garbage. I choose every day to be


joyful. I choose every day to be in


peace. Hallelujah.


The answer of peace. Number five, the


answer of faith. And this is so easy. We


know this one very well. And there are


different dimensions of faith. I beg you


listen to the teaching on dogged in


faith. There's faith that is speaking


and we know that one the active part of


it where you are speaking where you are


speaking. There's also faith that rest


on the power of God. Samson will hear


the lion.


Daniel will sleep in the lion's den.


Both of them have faith. None have


greater faith than the other. There's


faith that actively then is faith that


is resting. That is assurance. I trust


God. I rest in the power of God. And


there's faith also I taught you in that


teaching on dogged in faith. I taught


you seven dimensions of faith. Yes, I


did. There's faith that is lean on the


mercies of God. Many times where you


have prayed for something over and over


and it look like you're not see any


change. Lord I count you faithful. Lean


on the mercies of God. God you are


merciful. God you are merciful. Help me.


That Canaanite woman remember


woman she was a worshshiper. I said


that's faith that is worship that


worships God. You are still my God. You


are worships mercy. Be merciful unto me


Lord have mercy on me. Not everything is


about power. Everywhere scatter. Some


things is just being merc. God is just


merciful and gracious to you. Then there


is also faith that is not just speaking.


There's now faith that is fight. You go


wrestle. I will not shift ground. No, I


will not quit. No, I will not I will not


go until that's also faith too. Learn


all the aspects of


faith. That's also how we deal with that


disqueness. Especially when you now


sense that your issue is from the devil


but you better resist and rebuke


actively speak.


Amen. Choices of others you can uh lean


on the mercy of God and all of those


things too. All of them work. Faith


moves mountain. Mark 11:23 shall say to


this mountain be remove your heart but


believe that what you say shall come to


pass you shall have what you say. Say is


mentioned three times the power of


speaking. So we can't remove speaking


from


faith. And thank God we are not adverse.


We are not against the power of God. We


believe in the power of God. Then why


not speak? That is how circumstances


change. Many of the issues you are going


through. Have you ever acted by faith?


Choose to live by faith. Choose to live


by faith. Release your faith. Notice


they tore the roof open to drop the


child. Faith is in action. Can't say I


have faith and we are not seeing any


action. What steps are you taking? What


things are you doing? It will show you


hard faith. There's faith as uh as a


gift because there's a gift of the


spirit. The beautiful gate for example,


we saw what happened there. Peter says,


"Such as I have given unto you in the


name of Jesus, rise up and


walk." The gift of faith was in


operation. Your gift of faith. That's


where we have faith in the anointed.


Faith as honor. I taught you that faith


as honor. You say not many lepers but


how many was cleansed? The context there


was honor. There is nothing faith and


honor cannot receive. And there's Jesus


could do no mighty works in his hometown


save heal a few sick folks. What was


that dishonor? He say it's not the


capital son. It's not the capital as


father and mother not with us. See


finish. How you see your pastor is how


you receive from him. How you see the


anointed is how you take from the


anointed. My pastor is always anointed


for me. Then also God puts word in his


mouth because God gave gifts to men and


the gift to men are men also. God have


set some in the church. Firstly,


apostles, secondly, prophet. First of


12:28, miracles, helps, government. God


have set some in the church. Men are


miracles and healing to us too. And God


knows that that person your life, you


will be healed. There have been some


situations that people say they have not


gotten healed over. We find out that


it's just


foolishness.


Some they keep doing the wrong choices


that led them there. poor eating habit,


poor this and you say, "Hands are made


on me." You're going to get sick again.


Better live well. You better remove that


poisonous un unforgiveness, bitterness,


strife, envy from your heart. You're


going to fall sick again. Those things


rottens the organs. Remove those


poisonous things from within you. Amen.


And live life with


joy. Amen.


The answer of faith. I have faith. The


shall live by faith. We all have the


faith of God. And because I have faith,


I believe, I speak, I


expect. Things can change. And they say,


"Oh, these ones are Pentecostal. This


ones are for charismatic." No, it's for


Christians. We see in the Bible people's


faith made a difference. Your faith can


make a difference, too. So, if the


circumstance, all the rest did not work.


And we see that there are some


circumstances the disquitness of the


soul of a man that it was


faith. Look at how Peter was discouraged


already. But Jesus said cast it on the


right side. It was faith. The answer of


faith brought peace to the man's heart.


When he say we have to we have caught


nothing. Cast it on the right side.


Power. Say power.


Power. Power.


Thank God we have power with God. Some


people live life without using theirs.


But I choose to use mine. I choose and


faith appropates the power of God. Faith


puts the power of God in motion. And


when I get to speaking, I get to see the


power of God in operation. I believe God


speak. We ended last week Sunday saying


that. Number six, the answer of


providence. I need to know that God is


in control. God is sovereign. Man has a


will. We taugh that in


uh where is God in the silence and delay


and we also taugh that in another of our


message silence can't remember okay I


said it twice last year and I referenced


both of them in the same message okay so


God is sovereign man has a will and two


truths can coexist God is sovereign man


has a will and we use Joseph as an


example when we thought on God is a god


of


providence. Now, I dwelt I spent more


time talking about minion because I've


not really talked about that for a long


time. But these other ones, I've


mentioned them before and you can fill


in the blank. I'm your pastor, so I


should not be bothered if you have a


teaching on it. I know what I taught you


now. I've taught you a lot on all those


other ones, faith and the rest. So, the


answer of providence, God is a God of


providence. Look at Joseph looking back


say you meant it for evil but


God meant me to preserve life. Genesis


45. Look at how Joseph talks about


it. So learn to use delay positively.


Things don't always happen once. Be


patient. Not everything gets fixed. Not


everything arrive at once. In fact,


life's greatest lessons are learned when


contrary winds blow. Because that's


history verse one. a season, a time for


every purpose. So


no say but God God for knows


everything for knowledge doesn't always


necessitate predestination. I taught you


that in unseen forces taught you that a


lot. I gave you David as an example.


David said in 1 Samuel 23 with the men


of killer come we saw come it was in ke


e i l a h that town he had just helped


the town and he asked he inquired of the


lord will saw come the lord told him yes


will the men of killer that I' have just


helped will they protect me or will they


deliver me to the hand of s go say now


man now


man they go save their face So they will


deliver you to the hand of Saul. So what


did David do? Bible say he


left. Common sense not say Yahweh is


enough. Is Yahweh that told you they


will deliver you wrong. So what God saw


what God said was going to happen now


happen. There are many God say will


happen because that God something will


happen does not mean it's supposed to


happen. That's the difference between


for knowing in the day you because


that's why he's all knowing. that he's


all knowing does not mean he's all


manipulative. He's all man because


that's how I don't want to use the word


controlling because he's in control. God


is actually in control but he's


not controlling everybody's action. No,


man. That's why I say God is sovereign.


That's all powerful. Man has a choice.


The two coexist is that sovereign God


that gave man choice. And I've taught


you this intelligently and doctrinally.


So I beg you stop having that idea of


God knows what I'm


God is a God of providence look at


Joseph all of those times you can't say


God was not with him because the Bible


vers say for God was with him even in


the prison God was with him he prospered


even everywhere God was with him so God


was with him and it's not sin would have


said is Joseph is committing sin that's


why things are not working for him no


God is sovereign man has a will and when


You sit in the silence, you start to


realize is


that when people many times say God is


silent God, they say God is God is not


who I thought he was.


No, God is beyond what you think he is.


Is greater than what you can think. Your


finite mind cannot comprehend God. He's


bigger than that. And that's why we have


the word of God to tell us who God is,


what God is. So that I don't use one


circumstance to say who are you God? I


have enough Bible to know who God is and


how he does his things.


Amen. So God can work things out and


that Romans 8:28 which has been a wrong


translation over the years says with all


things work together. All things work


for good to them with them. Not to them


with them. The the Greek


uh construction is with them. You see


modern translations will soon starting


that God works with man. We always like


for them to them. There's an emphasis


with and that all God works all together


for good. The context there is about God


plan and purpose not your circumstance


as much as we misquote Bible verses


thought that. But do things work out for


good? Yes. But that's not the Bible


verse for it. But things do work out for


good. But that is dealing with the


groaning. The state of the earth is


going to be renewed. ultimately going to


turn out for good because God is the God


of providence. So he predestinates


events but he does not predestinate all


events. The only events he predestinate


I told you in that teaching is events


about eternal plan and purpose. God has


predestinated that I will marry this


woman. Keep quiet. Don't predestinate


any rubbish like that. And the woman


died never marry another one. How did


heate that? No. Stop saying silly


things. Is God is about salvation.


Eternal plan and purpose that he


predestinates. Every other thing lead to


our choices. Amen. And God allows our


choices. So it's just


life. Tell your neighbor is just


life. It's just


life. So the answer of providence. God


is a God of providence. It's okay if I


don't know everything. Joseph didn't


know have the answer to everything.


David didn't have the answer to


everything when he was running away. He


was anointed king but he was running


from pillar to post running everywhere


in the wilderness. But he was anointed


king was anointed king. No dishonor in


his heart. He still saw Saul as God's


anointed. Though Saul was honorable but


he did not change his state of his own


heart. That man that's why God says to


him he was he I will he would his


kingdom would have no end. That kind of


heart is rare to find. Today, even now,


his ministry is still being prolonged by


the church.


Hallelujah. No end. That has the only


reign that has no


end.


Hallelujah. God is a God of providence.


So, he didn't take matters into his own


hand and killed Saul just and he had all


the opportunity to kill Saul when he had


become anointed because he he was in


Saul's


house. God is able to bring to pass what


he have said.


Learn patience. If everything happened


at once, you will never know the place


of patience.


Now, and patience is a good thing.


That's why there are many natural things


that take time like the growth of


something. You are you are not dying in


one day. You are growing. You are


living. Everything must not happen


overnight. Let things take their normal


progression. And ultimately know that


you trust God. The God you trust is able


to work things out. Things will make


sense over time. Many of your greatest


lessons, you will learn it in times of


delay, in times of silence, in times


where it look like nothing is


working. You'll get to even know God


better and understand things. See a


broader picture, more tolerant of other


people. You will now be able to pray


more for other people and and see that


you are not the only one who go through


things. You learn many things at those


moments. Number seven, the answer of the


spirit. God gave us his spirit.


Comforter. Comforter. It's called


comforter. John 14 John chapter 16. The


comforter. The comforter. He is called


the


comforter. I pray the father and he


shall give you another comforter that


may abide with you forever. John 14:14


14:26. And the comforter which is the


holy ghost whom the father will send in


my name. He shall teach you all things.


And notice how he emphasizes the


comforter, the comforter, the answer of


the spirit. And this is very important.


God is with me always by his spirit. He


can be with me. The answer of the spirit


can come by way of comfort. Can come by


way of direction led by the spirit.


Inward witness can come by way of


wisdom. Can come by way of power which


is what we are used to when we hear


spirit. Power


and the answer of the spirit that God


gave us his spirit. We can come through


difficult times and season. The spirit


of God is always with me. I can talk to


him. I can talk to him. And learn to


talk to God. Learn to talk to God. Amen.


The answer of the


God is with me always by his spirit.


He's called comforter. And he comforts


me sometimes by giving me direction by


wisdom by hearing me out and being


patient hearing me out and just


supplying me strength while he hears me


out say all the things that is bothering


me that's why it says be answer


everything by prayer and so I tell god I


offload it on god he's big he can handle


it then


sometimes by his spirit power that's the


one we are used to every time we mention


spirit of God everybody everywhere


scatters but the answer of the spirit


many of the things that you are


disquited over is just something you can


hear God's voice for the leading of the


spirit direction is direction is not in


man to direct himself thank God I have


the spirit of God to direct


me


hallelujah thank God I have the spirit


of God he gives me wisdom gives me


direction gives me


comfort spirit of God with me in season


every time I have the spirit of God with


me, working with me. Hallelujah. So long


and short, there is no circumstance, no


issue, no problem, nothing that is


making me disqued that is not that I


cannot answer with God's word.


Amen. Say, "Oh sir, uh I have the loan


apps have come for me. Should you have


borrowed money from a loan app?" First


is a failure of relationships mean you


you are not a honorable friend. You have


not show yourself friendly to others.


Don't mind those stupid wisdom we see


flying around. I've seen so many of it


where people say things like u um I


don't bother money to my friends. I just


find small money and I give them that


you are wicked doesn't mean everybody


should be like you because some of us


came up the way of our friends borrowing


us money. Don't learn from stupid


worldly philosophies. No. is good


transport say out of two evils choose


neither I go for the lesser one don't do


lesser evil greater evil I reject all


evils if it's within your power to help


somebody help the person and stop doing


we don't we don't do that if nobody


borrow money to anybody where anybody


have stood institutions now borrow to


people is that not how people are able


to make money use other people's money


institutions borrow people money banks


and all of those things where you want


to do bigger things than your money can


carry So if you remove the concept of


borrowing you you are dealing with a


whole lot and you say oh I now got it


from a loan app those ones that now


start sending people message that you


are a thief you're a killer bring shame


to your name because you needed quick


money that's why you should have the


sucker of friends you didn't have


friends then how have you been living


then go listen to messages on how to


build friendship and be a friend because


me I have friends I can call and I come


out from tight situations that


Easy like that like this. Say ah God has


blessed you. Why did he not bless you


too? Stop making everything about God


has blessed and realize that show


yourself to be a true friend. But now


the kind of friendship messages you


listen to. If you are the wise person in


the class walk out that's not your


class. If you are the strongest person


that's not your friend. How do you reach


out all your friends? That's not your


friend. All your so now your friendship


are all bought. Everything is


all


economical. You have merchandise


friendship. Have real friends who are


for you. Not just for what you are for,


against what you are against. I'm for


women right. I stand with you. The day


I'm not for women right, you are no


longer for me. No, I'm for you. In


prison, out of prison, I'm for you.


That's friends. You build such


relationship. And if you have two or


three, you're a child of destiny. All


you need is just one. and God now bless


you with two you are you have enough


just one friend that is for you not for


what you are for against what you are


against but for you that's true


friendship once you have such persons


you are made for life just one is enough


thank God is like that for all of us in


case we did not have any other one at


least there is a friend that stickers


closer than a brother that one is


enough but I can also have it with


people and learn how to build


relationship many of those things that


people are saying oh I did not know how


could have cuz that just entered into my


spirit now and why did you need to have


the things that you didn't have the


money for you never borrow money for


liabilities which again live life with


wisdom so you borrow the money you


wanted to buy a


dress because you wanted to buy a


phone it's not like you will make money


with the


phone who borrows money liabilities just


to prove a point to


friendsh those same friends at the end


of the day they not help you now they


say no I'm learning sir I'm learning sir


it's not about learning I'm not telling


you to become vengeful where people now


do stupid like you will see when I


become rich again you will see you are


just petty that is not how Christians


think or


talk when I become rich I will pepper we


are not doing pepper them here just be


godly not learned the lesson


We are good, nice, honest, generous


people. We don't do I not pepper. That's


not how life is


lived. Amen.


A good name is better than riches. Build


a good name so that people know that oh


if I give him money I will get it back.


Not that I give money voice me. That's


is the issue. Let's deal with the real


issue. So tell your friends, hold your


friends accountable. I don't want this


to be the end of our friendship. Hope


you'll be honorable enough. Yeah. Yeah.


It's not a crying matter. Clean your


tears. Answer


logically. What measures are you putting


in place? And if God really has blessed


you and you know if you give that money


and you become stranded then don't


borrow the kind of money that you borrow


and you become stranded now. Because


what if the person failed you? The


person have just ended the


friendship and your conscience is free


before God. Always know that there is a


God. I live before God. People fail,


people fail, people. Yeah. The same way


people lose money in business too.


However, that person have just showed


themsel to be dishonorable. So, can't


have such kind of persons that you came


through for but now come true for me. We


are hearing stories upon stories. It's


been seven years and you still stories


upon stories. Those are people assigned


to you from Satan to kill you. You God


revealed them to you in that scarcity or


you loaning


them. Don't do too


much. Don't put too much pressure on


yourself. That's where the disquitness


is coming from. As we prepare for


general school of ministry, this is the


best message I could have preached to


you. You come ready to learn, grow, not


circumstance not they finish. If you


have one house, you want to have two.


When you have two, you want to have a


different


states. Calm down. So tell yourself this


will not determine. I'm not saying


don't. Please do have such but don't let


it determine you're serving God. That's


the problem. You are doing too much


because it will never be enough. There


will never be an amount of money you


have made that you don't want to make


more. So put things under your control


so that you can have peace. So you know


that


okay this state is the state of wealth.


So I I I I pursue this state but not


against my service of God. So all right


because I live for the Lord. One thing I


write there that do I seek after I'm


zillious for all times. Let the zeal of


the Lord follow me. I put a prayer many


years ago and I still say it. If I lack


anything, may I never lack the strength


to pray. I never lack the strength to


pray. I lack the strength. Let your zeal


fall on me for all times. These are


things you pray about. You say it


regularly. Satan can't even temp those


things again. Temp I'll close it down in


a second. So say what fire


burn. I don't live life. I don't it's


not a gamble. You must say things so


that Satan knows that he has no place. I


don't leave those things are not where


my joy is and my happiness is. I'll


build another one again. I start another


one again. What if all of this crumble I


build another one. I start another


business. I I'm not going to. That's not


the end of me. You will not determine my


joy. You will not determine my peace.


You will not tell me if I should keep


serving God. I will serve him all the


days of my


life. Same thing, the same posture you


have. I will serve him. I will follow


him all the days of my


life. I'm talking to different persons


here. This is the best prophetic service


we can have this before camp meeting


before GSM. I meant to say talking to


different persons


here. So should I set targets for


myself? Yes. But if the targets are


making you not live in peace and joy,


then make it


flexible.


Always have your expectations under


control. If you don't manage your


expectations, you'll be unhappy. Telling


you my own secret and it's from


scriptures we learned it. Happy are you


if you think on these things there. So


there are Bible shows us that we can


regulate happiness. Happiness joy are


based on your view of things. Nothing


takes my joy away. People have tried,


things have tried, they still could not


take my joy. Nothing's ever going to be


able to take my joy. I will be happy for


all times. I'll be joyful for all


seasons because my joy is in the Lord.


My peace is in the Lord. And when it


comes to circumstances, I put them under


my control because I'm supposed to be m


when we were younger, we used to call it


MSE. Masters over circumstances, over


situations and


circumstances. So you have your BSE and


your


MSE, a master over situation and


circumstances. Live like that. So live


your life like that. nothing affects


your peace and your joy. So every time


my soul why thou I answered fast hop in


God. In fact not just hop in God I tell


it why are you envious if it's if it's


my neighbor's goods that I'm


eyeing. Why are you envious? Why are you


bitter? Why are you


jealous? You'll get those things later.


You can't get it now, you get it next


week. You can't get next week, get it


next year. You can't get next year, get


it next year. Get the upper year. But I


shall get it. But I'm not going to let


anything stop me from being joyful. I'm


not going to. And most importantly,


which is the essence of this teaching


because that same Psalm 42 as the heart


ped so I p for you. Nothing is going to


stop me from being zealous for


God. Because situations not


finish. But I know the answer of


meaning. I know the answer of I know how


to use the meaning of life to answer


this quietness. I know how to use hope


to answer this quietness. I know how to


use faith to answer this quietness. I


know how to use wisdom to answer this


quietness. I know how to use providence


that God is in charge of all things.


Ultimately, he will work it out because


he is my God. And me and him are in the


same house. He can't his house cannot be


a house of chaos. So I know what he can


do. He would fix things cuz I trust him.


Amen. And he gave me his spirit. I'm not


bothered. I I lean. I


trust in the Lord. Hallelujah. Stand on


your feet. Lift your hands this


morning. Should you make money? Yes. But


money should not stop you from serving


God of God. How much is enough?


I live for God. I live for God. Want to


make a million dollars? You will. And I


beg you, please have such


visions. Then have the sense for it.


Have the sense for it. Have the friends


for it, the diligence for it, but don't


have the anxiety for it. No, I'm anxious


for nothing. I'm anxious for nothing.


Can you say these words with me this


morning?


The truth is is that soul you need to


say to your soul when nobody is there.


Are you anxious? I'm anxious for


nothing. I'm anxious for nothing. I'm


anxious for


nothing. Nothing can steal my peace and


joy. Say leave it. Answer circumstances.


Answer those emotional


states. Say I'm an emotional person. Are


we not all emotional person? If you are


not me, I am Every human being should be


emotional for God. God gave us emotions


for God's sake. It's not a bad thing to


be emotional. It's not a bad to be


logical. But I will not use it against


my God. God gave us everything to serve


him. I serve him with all my heart, with


all my soul, with all my strength. I


serve


him. I know the purpose of


things. I came to this world with


nothing. Look at how Paul answers that


question. Though temporarily trying to


answer question but it's bringing in


contentment nothing moves


me I you learn it when you get richer


too you learn it when you have all the


education the intellect how many books


can you read that you don't want to read


more


books now I read so many books and I'm


still seeing that there's still more to


read there's no end to it calm down


don't use those things to now affect


your worship of God your fellowship


No, I love the Lord with all my heart. I


serve the Lord with all my heart. Say it


enough to circumstance. Say it enough to


the contrary winds that blow. Say it


enough to your heart. Anchor your heart.


Immovable, steadfast, trusting the Lord.


Steadfast. I am steadfast trusting the


Lord. Lift your hands and pray. And pray


that prayer with boldness. This pray


that prayer will. Nothing will ever make


me down again. I will answer it with the


word of


God.


Amen. Lord, you know the darkness of our


words. You know how difficult


situations, circumstances can be and you


promise that you would help us. Lord, we


ask you, oh gracious father, that may


faith and patience always well up in our


hearts.


Teach us to always be grateful and be


faithful to you.


Help


us to not lose sight of


your


presence. Help us to quiet our soul with


your grace and with your peace and with


your love and with your power. Let


strength and courage keep us


in the name of


Jesus and show us greater show us great


and mighty things that we know not of.


Show us the more to live for


in the name of Jesus.


that every discomfort, every anxiety,


every tension, pressure, stress,


overwhelming matter in our heart, we


cast it down on your feet. We lay it all


down and we say, "You are enough for


strength for us. You are enough for


courage for us. You are enough for


boldness for us. You are enough to see


us through." And thank you for the


friends, the people you have given us as


well. And we know the days ahead are


glorious because we have you and we have


the people you have put in our life. We


thank you, oh gracious God, for we know


things are working, things have turned


around and you have made the way for us


in the name of Jesus.


Amen. God bless you.


Trust you learn something.