 Matthews Gospel 28, and Jesus came and spoke unto them saying, all authority in the heaven and in earth is given unto me. Go ye there for and teach all nations about piety them in any mother father and of the son and of the Holy Ghost. To ye them to observe all things whatsoever commanded you, and lo and with you always able to be able to be able to do. I'm going to summarize a few things I said in the earlier services. I would have time to go over them, but I believe you lay your hands on them. Now, the use of heaven there, obviously shows you that the great commission is a supernatural task. Earlier on in Matthew 6, it says your father, what never that's what we usually call the lost prayer. Remember, in front of mine said it is a lost prayer. Let's pray. Matthew 6, father, what in heaven? I'll be thy name. Now, our father, what in heaven doesn't mean our father who is in the place where dead people are. Rather, our father who is in the supernatural, how will be your name, the kingdom come? Your will is done as it is in heaven. You have that phrase running through Matthew, in Matthew 16, 13, when Jesus asked who the man said that I, the son of man, I'm some say your journey Baptist, or that's Elijah, or one of the prophets, but who do you say that I am? Then beat us spoke up and say that what the Christ is son of the living God. And Jesus answered and said, the pleasure that I'm in my journey for flesh and blood, I've not reviewed this unto you, what my father, which is in heaven, which means by his spirit. That's what it means. Evan simply means the supernatural world, which is in this earth, which is in this world. It's in Isaiah, the pizza upon this rock, I'll build my church and the gates of hell, shall not prevail against it. Now, I mentioned this in the earlier services that I've taught you this before, that this location was what was called the gates of hell. It's like a shrine, okay? Called the gates of the access to the unseen world, or to the underworld. And so the emperor was called the Lord of the gates of hell. So Jesus makes a confrontational statement by saying he's gonna confront it and build this church from, call it hell, call it Hades, but majorly from the supernatural. Then he says, I'll give to you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. What about the injured by men first, is burning heaven, wherever things you lose on earth is losing heaven. Now, definitely all these statements, as we have said often and often, that Jesus' Bible is the old testament. Now, we call it old testament, not because that's what it is, is because that is what is, shall I use translate it, I printed on our Bibles, but it's not so called in Old Testament. Jesus calls, Genesis to Malachi, the word of God, just like it calls the Lord of Moses, the word of God. So the same way. So those words that we find in the words of Jesus are first and foremost words in the old testament books, as we call them today. So like I was just some of us things who said in the first service, that when the Bible says in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth, that what he's talking about was a spirit world, Genesis 1.1. And Genesis 1.14, he uses the stars, the moon, and the stellar heavens as a sign. We looked at that word off, OTH, which I showed you as another word by the name, let me just go to the Ava, which means to point at it. And that's why you see that the Psalmist and Old Testament prophets, usually in referring to supernatural things, we use the cosmic world to describe it, stars, the moon, you know, the wind, because that is the signs that they represent. They point you to the supernatural. So you see that word in the Old Testament, whole stop heaven, whole stop heaven, heavenly host. And we saw that God sits at in the middle of it, he sits above it of the heavenly host. And the heavenly host refers to supernatural beings. You find them called Elohims, or sometimes that's the Greek, the Hebrew word for gods. Sometimes you also have them called sons of God, then the Elohim. So those are phrases for this supernatural beings that God created. All things were created by God. The only uncreated being is God. So whether it's evil or good, right? Initially was in God's creation. So the supernatural by Jesus one one, the supernatural is a core part of God's creation, which means that in the earth today, we have the heavenly, how we have the earthly. The earthly simply means natural things, earthly things basically. And then we have the heavenly, the supernatural. Finally, I want to say, that's the essence of the work of Jesus. When He rose from the dead, Ephesians 1, 19 says, the excelling greatness of His Father was what we believe, according to the work of His mighty Father, which He wrote in Christ, when He raised Him from the dead, and set Him in the heavenly. And the right and the God in the heavenly, far above all, principalities, power, might, and dominion. That is what is summarizing the Old Testament as host of heaven. Ephesians 3, 10 also says the same thing. But in 2, 10 Ephesians 1, 21 and 22 says, He gave me the bed of our things to the church, His body, the fullness of Him that feared all in all. So just like it said, all of the qualities given to the heaven that go in there for, or the same way He says, in my name, okay, whatever things you buy in the bathroom, all that means that the supernatural world, right, all right, is on that the authority of the believer by identification. So the great commission, therefore, can be summarized, and we said it's over the years, as spiritual warfare. It's not a sociological discussion. It's binding on earth what is bound in heaven. Binding on earth what is bound in heaven is the preaching of the gospel. So what it says, I give you the keys of the kingdom, it simply means you will buy the gospel, bind and lose. Whatever is bound on earth, it's already bound in heaven. And this is the essence of the great commission. Are you following this? All right, are you following this? Come on. Mark 16. I can't say I'm just summarizing things we said in the first service. Mark 16. And I said unto them, we're into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believes in His baptized shall be saved. He that believes not shall be done. And this time shall follow them that believe in my name. They shall cast out demons. They shall speak with new tongues. They shall take off servants. He did drink any deli, the mission or hurt them. They shall lay hands on the sick and the sick shall recover. Let me mention this once more. That the word gospel is a warfare term, a war terminology. The word gospel is a war terminology. Talks about a king kingdom and its exploits. Yet again, just like making disciples is a warfare term. A particle remains to seize people from the kingdom of darkness, same thing as the word gospel. Bazaar in Hebrew, B-A-S-A-R, Huwajalion in the Greek, which means to capture territories, to take over places, take over hearts. That's the gospel. See, not just a man now, it's actually a spiritual warfare. And the weapons are not canal. So they're going to stand three and four. But mighty through God to the pulling down of strong ghosts, that's the preaching of the gospel. Casting down every imagination, every item that exhausts itself again is the knowledge of God. That's what the preaching of the gospel is. So that's why in verse 19, should have a lot of spoken under them, he was re-zipped up in the heavens, he's not heaven, as fat on the right hand of God. Heaven, there is nowhere. That people go up and say, again and again, he simply means the supernatural world in this world. So Jesus in the heaven is still with them. Just like our father who was in heaven was with them. Jesus in heaven is with them. It just means he vanished out of their physical sites. Something might not be seen, yet it exists. Which is what the way I'm saying here. Come on, we get that. So whatever is seen is called, apparently, whatever is not seen is called what? Come on, heavenly. So the unseen world, the supernatural world is called heavenly. And so what we have is as we preach the heavenly, the message of the heavenly, we have signs. Same way that the strong moon has passed point to the supernatural, healing, casinato demons, speaking with tors, a signs of that supernatural world. They went forth and preached everywhere, the Lord walking with and confirming the message, the message of an heavenly kingdom, the message of an heavenly king with signs. So which means the supernatural, the miraculous is an intrusion of the supernatural in the natural, now points you back to where you got that one. The miraculous is an intervention of the supernatural in the natural, now points you back where to the supernatural. So the Bible is a natural book why because it's written in human languages? Human being is written by points you to the supernatural, the scriptures. It looks gospel 24, looks gospel 24, and verse 25. It's made come to them, it's said unto them, Palavu, we're looking at a lane of hands and forget, and put the slow heart to believe all that the prophets are spoken, or not Christ who have sought and these things, and to enter into His glory. And begin at Moses and other prophets, he expanded them in all the scriptures, the things concerning Himself, the things concerning Himself. So we have said that by using the prophets as context of what we call the New Testament today, it means that the New Testament books are set in a supernatural context. The epistles are descriptions of the supernatural because Procuret are supernatural agents. So the first thing He asked us to do, which He has done here, is to interpret their menu to show the meaning of it. It looks gospel 24, verse 44. He said unto them, these are the words which I speak unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the Lord Moses, and in the prophets, and in the Psalms. Again, the prophets comes out concerning Me. You'll put here the understanding that they might understand the scriptures. I repeat myself yet again, that Jesus's Bible was His works or was, or is, what we refer to as the Old Testament. Therefore, the context of the epistles are the Old Testament books. You cannot understand the epistles without reading the Old Testament because if I'm teaching you a law class, human rights class, and what you have before you is a geography textbook. It's likely you're going to see the words I'm using in a geography textbook, but you don't understand what I'm saying. You may know the words I'm using, you may be familiar with the words I'm using, but you don't understand what I'm saying. You don't understand why I'm using those words. So, we mustn't, and I must say this quickly, we must not impose today's meaning on Bible words. Bible words are interpreted with the Bible itself. For example, let me mention this one quickly. When we say say time, for example, what comes up in my mind regularly for the first, I mean, years ago, when you say time, say time is terrible. One being like that. You know, who is meant to be fighting ghosts, something like that. And go back to the Old Testament. I said that say time is not anybody's name. Say time simply means someone who opposes. And in a few times in the Old Testament is used for God and even in the heavens. And that's why Paul and Paul's Quentin are inside. He says to the church, there's this brother who has his father's wife. When you guys are just watching him and doing nothing, say, well, I've sent you down present, and the name of the Lord Jesus Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit, He says that I believe our society wants to say time for the destruction of this flesh, and the Quentin's five, five, also how do you do about the Satan? Years ago, I had someone say this, and I was a bit disturbed when he said that. He said, what it simply means that the apostle has a supernatural office. He can just decide when he wants to discipline you. To see a certain, come on, get this guy. Take him away, bring him back in six weeks. So I said, how does he get to talk to Satan? But, you know, I didn't really understand. So I just wondered how he would even live at the Satan. So I saw the word again in first Timothy 1, 20, talking about Alexander Am, you know, say, I've delivered them to Satan, then it says that they may learn not to blaspheme. First Quentin's five, five, that is, it's been saved, they lost it. So which means it has a purpose, okay? So I saw first Timothy again, five, where he says from women, who are for mention, they said, they are busy bodies, they are turned to Satan. So I packed the answer, that means Satan here is not particularly referring to anyone, an activity. So for example, if somebody does something that is wrong, and we all as a church, oppose what he has done, we are Satan. You don't like to say that, right? I'm Satan. That activity is called Satan. So when he says, I've delivered such a one to Satan, I'm asking you to oppose him, accuse him, okay? Well, if it's in first Timothy 1, 20, I believe that in the soul and they will learn not to blaspheme, that is, we have opposed them so they can show up. Who's following us in here? And that's the same way it is in the Old Testament. Now, definitely, those are the kind of things that we must need to look at and study, so we do not make errors in our studies of Scripture. You'll put in the understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. So we must impose our meanings on Scripture, John 20 and 21. Then said Jesus to them, John 20 and 21, received, as a father, and so I sent you, there is a receiving the Holy Ghost by breathing on them, which is by teaching. And in 23, we'll serve as sins you remit, are remitted unto them, we'll serve as things you retain, are retained unto them. Now, listen carefully, we'll show something in the moment. Now, in Luke 24, and we've said many times that the writings of Moses, precisely called Genesis to this astronomy, are the foundational, but we can call that the mini Bible. Foundation of the Bible is Genesis to this astronomy. Every other person, afterwards, is interpreting Moses, or interpreting Moses through the interpretation of those who interpret Moses. That's how it is. So the foundation of Christian adoption is the Lord Moses. I'm going to show you the other services as well. That the one Lord doesn't mean legalism. Lord by Bible definition means doctrine. Now, doctrine can include instructions and corrections, can include regulations. But you don't call the Lord Moses do's and does. It's like you don't call a tire of a car, the car. The most look at the car itself. Most of what we call the laws of Moses and the legalism are in my new part of it. The Lord Moses primarily is the doctrine of God and the revelation of His Son. That is what it is. Usually what differs will be the kind of language that is used. So let's pay attention to something here. In verse 27 of Luke 24, it says, beginning at Moses, a pattern you must in new sight of. In 20, in 44, it says, written in the law of Moses. In all the synotic writers, in all synopeic pattern, including John, Matthew 11 says, this is the book of Genesis, Matthew 11. Mark 11, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus, R.K. So Genesis beginning, Matthew 11, R.K. Mark 11 beginning. Of course you are familiar with John 11. In the beginning was the word. So a pattern has been said that even those who have to write the story of Jesus use the pattern of starting from Genesis. Now, what about their postolic letters? Let's assume, let's call them the epistles for now. Though I've said it many times, that the law of Moses is God's word. The books of Joshua, George's and all that are epistles of the law of Moses. That's what they are. Let's look at this again. So the word beginning, right, is a fact that you read in all the synoptic. Let's look at one very vital principle. In Matthew 13 and 34, these are the epistles of the law of Moses. Matthew 13 and 34. These are the epistles of the law of Moses. And then Matthew says, all these things speak Jesus onto the multitude in Pyribles and without a Pyrible, speaking not unto them, without a Pyrible, speaking not unto them. That it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I want my mouth in Pyribles. Let's take the B part together. I want other things. Let's take it again. I want other things that we kept secret from the foundation of the world. So that word foundation of the world, what does it mean? Is it a mysterious statement? No, it's not. Matthew 25. Now let me spell that word for you, so that we're going to do a decision in a moment. The word from the foundation of the world is a Greek one, Apple, Catapult, East, Cosmos, Australia, APO, from the main things, APO, Apple, Catapulties, K-A-T-A-B-O-L-E-S. That's what foundation, K-A-T-A-B-O-L-S, then Cosmos, K-O-S-M-O-U, is used for arrangement. I want you to listen carefully to this. From the foundation of the world. Now that phrase, you're going to see it again in Matthew 25 and 34. You, blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. You almost think like the writers are referring to one mysterious thing that we don't know about. No, they are not. Look at level. Pay attention here. Look at level. Apple, catapultie, Cosmos. Look at level. Now I want us to reach slowly from verse 49. We're going to reach through verse 50. Are you ready? Look at level. Are you ready? Let's go. Therefore, also said the wisdom of God. Profession apostles. Some of them, they just lay in. 50 slowly, let's go. That the blood of all the prophets, which were shed from the foundation of the world. Although, okay, maybe required of where? Now from where? From the blood of who? So you can see, the knowledge of the world refers to a particular book of the Bible. And that refers to Genesis. Because the word foundation catapultie is also used for conception. When an idea was conceived, John 17. Now, before good John 17, let's see other, because it's another phrase we're going to look at, the second word of the word apple, catapulties cosmos. Now, Hebrews 4.3, Hebrews, the book of Hebrews, chapter 4, and verse 3. Watch this. For we which are believed to enter into rest, and it said, I have sworn in my word, if they shall enter into my rest. Although the works were finished from where? Foundation of the world. Okay, look, I've read the Foundation of the world. Let's go for his book in a certain place. Otherwise, that God did rest the seven day from his work. That's Genesis, right? So Genesis is called Foundation of the World. Hebrews 9.26. So things found in Genesis are foundational. Catapulties. Hebrews 9.26. For them, it must often have suffered, things the foundation of the world. So how is that suffering? Things the foundation of the world. That's about evil, right? All the anointed ones that suffered, they said he must have suffered, things the foundation of the world. Okay, Hebrews 9.26. But now in the end of the world, which means we have, what you have, watch what I'm about to say, the last days will be the fulfillment of the promised God-made in Genesis. So the first is Genesis. The last is in the four gospels. First and the last. Beginning and ending. Ending means goal. Nothing is over. It doesn't exist. It means what God planted in Genesis, we have bested it in the four gospels. Who's following this? Are you following this? So, the foundation of the world refers to seed. Hebrews 11. And verse 11. Through faith, Sarah herself conceived, received stressory, to conceive seed. The word conceived there is the word catapult. So catapult means seed, where seed is sown. Genesis 11. The seed is in itself bearing fruit of thy skin. Seed and harvest are not seeds. Genesis 8.22. The harvest is in the four gospels, the book of Acts, which we now call the first fruit of Pentecost. Now, let's go to another word. This one is not apple. It's the word pro. So just replace apple with pro, P-R-O. Look at John 1724. John 1724. This is Jesus. However, I will let you also, that you're giving me, be with me and be, that they may behold my glory, which you are giving me for your Lord, me, before the foundation of the world, before the foundation of the world. Prove. That's a bit, before, so we have sins or before. Okay? Now, the word before here, where you said before the foundation of the world, it means before you sow the seed, we sow the intention of God in Genesis. It's still referring to Genesis. The plan and the purpose of God in Genesis is what is called before the foundation of the world. So pro refers to the intention, apple refers to the timing. Efficiency is chosen us in Him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before Him in love. That's Genesis. First Peter 1.20, who very was for then before the foundation of the world was made manifest in this last time. So foundation of the world, Genesis, what is the last days? From the four gospels. We are in the last days. It doesn't mean, the end. It means the days of the fulfillment of what was said, or the day of the harvest of the seed that was sowed. So last day is not an event. It is a series of activities. Revelation. 13 and 8. So we can find the pattern or the seed of all that we saw because the prophets and the sounds in the four gospels in Genesis. Revelation 13 and 8. All that was written in the book of the last time from the foundation of the world. From Genesis. Revelation 17 and 8. The book of life. From the first of all, what is the book of life? Let me just mention that quickly. So it doesn't get confused. Book of life is a terminology in the Old Testament for where they register names of people living in this city. So everybody at life, when you take a census, then you take the names of the people down. That book is called the book of the living. Those who are there. So when John was saying, Jesus said, I will not blow his name out. That means he has given eternal life. So the giving of eternal life is why the name is not blowed out. So watch this very well. So what is that book of life? Now from Genesis, who did God intend to bless? All the families of the earth. Right? So technically, everyone should be in that book. But when a man does not believe the gospel, what I suppose is his name? Do you understand it now? But when a man believes the gospel, his name can't be removed because he has eternal life. Who's following this? Does it make sense? So book of life is not that an angel was saying, there was a name again. I can't see your name. I'll check my name, sir. Sorry. You change your name. We don't have anything new. You were passionate. And now you are, you know. Also your first name. Because of course, maybe you are of course good to have. That's the one going on. So from the foundation of the world, refers to Genesis. Is it making sense? Is it making sense? Now look at the text that Matthew refers to. Matthew 1334. So that you get it. Matthew 1334. Open your mind now. Come on. Open your mind. I want to show you something very quickly. Matthew 1334. Matthew says, it was what is referring to in 35 was spoken by the prophets. So where is he referring to? I saw him 78th. And verse 2. Verse 2. I will open my mouth in the Bible. I will order dark scenes of old. That one is quite them in the Hebrew. QEDM. Now listen very well. Dark scenes of old. Now, don't get this wrong. What there is isth. And it's the same word used to describe the guardian of Eden. Genesis 2.8. A guardian planted eastward. Genesis 3.24. The isths of the guardian of Eden. Now, as you keep reading, you will read isth often times. Genesis again, for 16, the east of Eden. And that one flows through the Old Testament. You also find the spirit of God in the Exodus called the East Wind. So when you read that word, it's pointing your attention to the guardian of Eden. I will open my mouth and order the things that God said from Eden. From the foundation of the world. So we need to go back to the foundation of the world which is Genesis, Eden. And see what is the intention. What is saying that we know that God chose us from Eden to be holy and blineless before him in love. We know he predestined us from Eden. So what's exactly going on? Now, put your attention on something. I have to skip many things I said in the earlier service. I'll show you something very simple. Now, in Matthew 9, something happened that Jesus was ministering and teaching in verse 35, Matthew 9, put your attention in Genesis 1, I'll tell you this before, that a particular theology ensured that every time we are reading Adam, what we are reading is the principal sinners. So there's a whole lot of industri that we do not pay attention to, we go and draw to him, don't let me hear Adam, please. Just, he's just the head boy of all the sinners. But here we have been told to go back there and see the intention that you cannot understand the new creation or even Jesus, who is eventually called the last-sacred-on-Adam, until you go back and see the foundation of the world. Who's following this? Are you following this? Now, don't vote that now. Because I wanted to talk about original things, that Adam's thing is where you are seen as. One of the most terrible theologies are ever-existent to say, Amesena because of Adam. It even puts going with very horrible light, that I'm responsible for what you did. I write in the Bible that if the Bible was a new creation, ever was the part from came. If sin was transferred by genealogy, then ever and occasionally who will kill who first? But that wasn't it? That separation was made. And if it is such, you know, you will find both Adam and Eve naming their children after God's plan. That means the new God's plan is to meet. So the idea of putting Adam in that light of the end of sin is general arrival. No one is a sinner by procreation. Amesena, the following was saying here. Come on, let me see a hand. It's a theology that's pronged up at some points. And then God with debunked in many of our materials and will still keep doing it. Now, in that Matthew 9, Jesus is preaching, then Matthew recores in verse 36. He saw the multitude. He was moving compassion on them because they printed our skydiver board like sheep without shepherd. Now, this is to that word, sheep without shepherd. He's a phrase just marked. You're going to see numbers 2717. It was Moses that said it. When Moses knew was not going to lead Israel to the promised land, there would be a man over this convocation. He knew that God's methods would even know what is with them. He knew God will always use men. So you have to get a manual congregation who will lead these people in an outfall so that people would not be like sheep without shepherd. So like I said in the earlier service, you need to know God's methods. God's method is man. God, if I am or say, there's a lot of people who do nothing except he will be due to some of the prophets. Which means that that is everyone knew God's method. I want to know what God is doing. Look at man. Another person, a person, a person who said years ago, said, so I'm not praying for revival. Rather looking for where it is happening. And they are praying for what God is doing. There is already doing. Often times the reason why we are praying is because we have this spice of what he is using. God always uses men. What did I say? From the foundation of the world. Like I can go about things that are telling the first service we look at the heavenly beings and man, you will see that God's method has not changed. Now look at this. So they are like sheep without shepherd. Matthew knows that God will always use men. So they wouldn't be like sheep having no shepherd. So what does Jesus say? The harvest is plenty of us but the laborers are few. Pray ye the Lord of the harvest to move his power. Now what he said. Pray God to do it. Go Saturday. And I was waiting you. And I'm going to say, to Saturday. And I'm going to be waiting you. Oh God. Oh God. Really. To send for the laborers into his harvest. Matthew 10.1. What did I do? He now called his 12 disciples and sent them. That is God's method. He sends laborers. Let me show you something. The second disciples call time. In Mark 6. When they go crazy, it is God. It is still men that go to sent. And make them go crazy. In Mark 6, they wear crazy on Jesus and they wear this guy. Is this not the capital? The Son of Mary, Mark 6, the brother of James, Joseph, Judah, Simon. And his sisters, Mary, Joseph, Simon. And he said, Baji Mary. He's like, where do we build electricity? And they offer a hymn. Look at what he said. If prophet is not without honor, but his own country, among his own kin, and his own house. Now, I'll go and say this in the first episode. Let me just say this quickly. I'll go back to you later. Okay. Same as he wore late hands in a few six folk, and he'll be there. That means, at the highest point of unbelief, lay down of hands will walk. At the highest point. Now, if Jesus could resort to lay down of hands, at the highest points of unbelief, the are, you know, lay down of hands will. Look at their faces here. In my world because of their own beliefs, and they went about the village he's teaching. Now, what does he do? He now calls the twelve and sends them. So the cure to the sonarine God's men is to send all that God's men. The solution the cure still remains men. So man is God's method. As we have told in this series, we saw that Adam was a perfect remember. Come on. A priest and a king. And notice what he's called. He's supposed to take care of a garden. What does Jesus call himself and the church? I am the true vine. My father is the Osborne man. And you are the branches. He takes us into the garden thinking. John 15 verse 1 through 2, 3 and 4. This is every branch. What this? That doesn't bear fruit. My father will prune it. A prune walk. That's Genesis 2. And 15 to dress and keep the garden. Of course, you know the garden is referring to there. Is the indwelling of the spirits. Now who's going to do their pruning? Haha. John 14 20. That day you know I'm in my father. I'm in you and you and me. Whatever you do in my name, that will I do that the father may be glorified in the sun. So our job in the ministry is a job of vine dressers. Keep us of a garden. Is that Adam's job? Huh? We cultivate, walk with the presence of God. So we have a perfect, a priest and a king. Now look at Genesis chapter 2. Again, those were so eager to teach marriage and relationships in its spectacular way through this scripture on the other boss. I have done it before but then go and post it out of the box. When God called Adam to sleep a deep sleep, you see that the deep sleep is a vision showing you that Adam Genesis 2.21 was a prophet. You see that Genesis 15 to 12 and 13. And then he closed his ribs and closed up the flesh instead and the rib which the Lord had taken from man made he a woman and brought her onto the man. So you call a woman your missing rib and you're asking for husband to be healed. Now the rib here in the entire Bible is not biological. I thought some verses that are corrected, I trust the verse that I'm working on with some people who are corrected. So is the worst sight. It's not a rib, it's not a biological word. Is the worst cellar. TSELA. TSELA. It's used in the building of the temple. X-25, X-25 and verse 12. The two rings in the other side, X-25 and 14, by the sides of the ark, X-26 and 20. The second side of the Tabanaco, X-26, one side of the Tabanaco, X-27. Side of the Tabanaco, verse 35, the north side. So it's a Tabanaco language. The worst cellar is like a pillar of a house. Now, notice that in Genesis 2, if Adam is a priest of God's presence, in Genesis 2 says, he closed up, then he says, for this cause shall remain, and it's why we want flesh. One flesh. Or let's say one Tabanaco, or one temple. What does it mean? It means God's temple is male and what? Female. That's all. So one God is given to Adam is God's temple. So a side of it and the other side are the same. Which means in the temple of God, there's no gender discrimination. Neither male nor female, because you are inside of another side, in God's building and temple. So a few things are clear, that God's method is neither male nor female, or male or female, from the foundation of the world. Is priesthood is neither male nor female? But what happened in the priesthood of Levi? Levi was God's permission, God's permissiveness. In Exodus 19.5, he declared the entire nation of Israel a priesthood, but they didn't want it. So he chose Levi as a permissive walk. So the priesthood of God and his spirit is neither male nor female. Now watch this closely. Remember, was supposed to go back to the East, that East refers to what? Up? Eden. Look at Ezekiel. So the proof of this walk is he's spirit. Ezekiel 37. Ather from 36. 36 shows us he was sprinkled clean water upon you. You shall be cleaned from all your filaments, from all your idols, who like cleanse you, their new heart, a new spirit, I'll be within you. That's an Eden experience. I'll put my spirit within you, cause you to walk in my sediments and you shall keep my judgments. You shall dwell in the land. 28. That's an Eden talk. And I give to your father. I'll be your God. I'll save you from all your cleanliness. I'll call for the call. And increase a bit. Let me know from it. That's an Eden talk. I'll multiply the foot of the tree. The tree. The increase of the field. Shall receive no more reports of farmine. Ammon be eaten. Farmine is a curse. Genesis 3. Shall I remember your own evil ways? Let's take 35 together and slowly. And they shall say, Let's go. It's calm. It's calm like the garden of Eden. And the waste and desolate and ruined cities, friends are in habitat. So Eden, just the East, Genesis, is the destination of the gospel. Isaiah 51 verse 3 has the same thing. But before we get there, look at the same azaleek. Isaiah 28 and verse 13 where he uses Eden again, the garden of God. Isaiah 43. 43 talks about the gates towards the East. Again, verse 1. Now look towards the East. The glory of God, the glory of Israel, came from the way of the East. That comes from the way of the East. That comes from the way of the East. That comes from the constant word. The East. Then the city. Then the Zikael 47. Now we first to reverse. Okay? Many rivers, many waters. As. No more textiles. Okay. I'm trying to skip too many things. I will take that time. Anyway, the point is Eden is not just and he's the historical fact. Eden is now an experience. That's why Jesus uses the word garden. Or let's say the vine. And then the vine. And then the vine. And then the vine. Eden has become an experience. I watched it written about Eden. Man is at the center of God's will and purpose. Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Genesis 126, 208. Selema. And Hebrew is how God works. When man fell, the solution again, the Genesis 3, 15. The seed of the woman. So man is God's method. Even when man is obeys and fails, the method does not change. When man were filled with wickedness, the Genesis 6, 5, and 6. What's the solution? He found Noah, Genesis 6, 8, and 9. Genesis 9, Noah is that comfort of God. So man is God's method. See if me man is God's method. Why look at the move of God in the earth? The move of God in the earth is man. And I made a distinction for also the second service. You should lay your hands on that. And when David said, what is man? David is comparing man with supernatural beings. Ah, man is able to know why that they have. He had got to all of them on their his feet. So I say man, therefore, his mind on definition is the best of the two worlds. I didn't say better deliberately, but the best. In Genesis 11, watch this again, when man decided to cooperate with his obey God and build a canonical or a tensor or a tower for idle worship. What happens? God calls him man. Abraham. He always uses men. It is a remittable, 8 and 9. He says, and God gave them over to the sons of God. Then he now called Israel, which refers to Abraham. So God uses man to introduce the blessing in the earth. He says, in Genesis 13, you shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. When he goes to rescue Egypt again, he sends a man. Now all the time that he sends man was in there. He's there. But man is what? His methods. Can God do without man? Yes. Does he know? Hallelujah. Sin man is God's method. So if you are going to see what God is within the earth, look at the man. And I said it to you many times. There's nothing called a personal sedu, all those kind of things. You have your personal relationship with God. There's nothing like that. If you read your Bible very well, that personality you are talking about is no God. It's yourself. Because even what we call the world of God is within by who? Amen. In their language and in their culture. So man is God's method. So when David asked the golden question, I see the stars. I see the heavenly beings. I see these heavenly beings. I see all of them. So what is man? That's my theoretical question. What is man? You are even made in a little lower than angels. What is going to be my God? One man is visible. The Elohim are not visible. They are not. The non-actually ones. And you cannot feel you are inferior. Oh yeah. You are inferior in the sense of your physical body. Why? Because while they can appear and disappear, I know you know you can't. Right? You know? While they can appear and disappear, no you can't. But that doesn't show superiority. Say what is man? You are mindful of him. Not a son of man at his visit. You are made in a little lower. Now to prove that superiority, God now did not take the form of the angelic beings or those supernatural beings. When he became a man, he took the nature of human beings. And right now, Hebrew said, Hebrew chapter 2 verse 9, that he was also made a little lower. For the suffering of death, that he might but the result of God, takes death for every man. But then he had put all things. Presbyteries, powers come on, minds, dominion, under the feet of the man who is a little lower than the angels or the Elohim. So your physical makeup is not an inferiority. No, it's not. Man remains God's method. So, definitely say, I see the heavenly hosts for what is man that you are mindful of him. Not a son of man that you visit him. You are meeting me little lower than the fall of time. But you have come in, which means I saw all that God created. Yet the person he gave the minion to was man. But all put him over the walks of your hands. Some eight. So God always uses men. And that's the beauty of when we talk about the God is in control and he says stop like that. And he said God is in control. And he really says it's like, you know, we will just be looking and go to the summary. Hey, what does happen? He's going to be a little lower than the angels. He's going to be a little lower than the angels. And then he goes out to the summary. He says what does happen? So God is in control. Yet, that control is limited to man. There are other episodes now. One of the things is that is okay. That is why you are called the elucidial bound. Guru What is easy перев Entrepreneurs. . . . The only place you can find are statements, right? Is that a preface, the maps or the cover? That statement is not just on true, it's fallacious. The opening of the Bible is chaos. That is the story of the Bible. Is every damn true story. God had so many fuel projects. Adam was one. He was a bell. He killed him. And he was even pleading. Then he chose Noah. Yeah. Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, I speak to you. Bring his family into church. Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, Noah, I thought George was Noah, at the entrance of not this church. So, yeah, I think I left it. I was, I was about, you know, he's not like he drank and fell. Was nicknamed. He killed him. Then the first thing he does, is someone that that generations is, you shall be blessed. Or let's say, God says, before before, multiply, replenish. You know what he does? He casts. But you know what? In spite of that, God has never, let me use, you know what, he has never distanced him before. aifak in Isaiah 54, he said as the waters of Noah, Jesus also describes his own menacing like that of Noah because man is his mentor. O Lord Abraham, Badae Abraham, as the Jesus. Jesus throw Abraham is so precious. In next chapter, his line. For you God know all this. For God we say, it's God where, it's God where, if there's God in this world, why do you just have aifu? Why these are aifu? If there's God in this world, why do you have aifu? So I said, if God is going to care, you cannot live. Say, I understand that. Oh, that was really good. Let's do it. If it works, take it out. It'll be without for my voice. There'll be nobody. So you took the better choice. Let me walk with what I believe. And why did he create us? He's going to do evil. You have to blame him. Okay. I say, well, do you love life? Well, you do now. He's not committed suicide. That means you love life. You enjoy life. Say, I do. And God took the better choice for you. His call was good. He knows you are going to disobey. He knows you put his spirit upon you. I will just go with what? I will go after you. Don't you like that, son? I don't deny it. Why? Because you're one of the one. I don't deny it. I don't deny it. It's not a story of God. So you're not going to Abraham. It's timeline. He's useless. We have to make money. Not once. They say, you got his Isaac. I think I want to let his father's dad. Let's keep Jacob. Let's go to do something. Any little thing is on Facebook. You're going to bathroom. He needs to have a little. Say, the outside world, the father of Susan Leaping, is in man of God. They say, even you are a mom. He's not in love with you. He got to eat it. He could not hold on. He was told not to go to eat it from my Egyptians. Bro. Bro, my Egyptian. Bro, Joseph. Bro, he's going to choose somebody in Egypt. He uses Moses. Somebody that sets us fight in Daga. Don't do it again. Because they don't know how to change. After 40 years, in the middle of the camp, he came back. He still should eat. And because it's my servant, Moses, or Joshua. Joshua, I saw this book. Fast and fast. They are from a sign in Tunis Church. So I really like that. I know that they move me. I'm like, oh, I read it by way. You'll see that this is just our stories. But you see, I've gone for a bit, but it will create. Tunisers, I get to David. The wedding was going to choose David. I felt that God told them to wait for the last guy, the main guy. Even the prophet missed it. He said, this was really lost. I know it. That's the whole thing. Give your qualification. You think it's paro? Oh, you missed that part. So they have been saying, David can't get to boy. He goes to the way I went from. He said, what have I done? And it's fine. Look at David. Is this the weakness of mine, generally? Are there any faults? But God promised him upon your throne, our seats. Why is method is? You know, you're passing that if we close our eyes so that even we'll cross, we'll pass. That's good. For God. It doesn't even bother. Hallelujah. It will lose whatever is available. Are you in charge? Up to your pit. When Jesus chose those guys, you lost your heart. This heart. If Jesus could choose people, if Jesus could choose them with us. All the twelve. Run away. What even and show that they killed him? And when he called them again, you could still see it. And you could see it. You could see it. And that's why we have this treasure. And it's a vessel. God has placed a treasure in the earth. And we're going to watch it. Oh, I don't do it. The thing is, we are all in this. Acts 3, 12. And Acts 4, 2. We are men of light passions, just like you. James 5, James said that Elijah was a man of light passions. That means he's just like you and I. So consistently, the scriptures is clear about God's method. Syrah and Abraham. Syrah was someone who, I mean, you saw God and you light. Syrah, did you love? I don't really believe it. Love. How? I was almost like, okay, I will return and I'll fulfill my promise. I should thank God. You're definitely going to record it. Syrah by faith. I can't be paid to wear aah. The only thing I'm walking the gold. I'm walking the gold. I'm walking the gold. So when you see that, the only time that you see it is fulfilled is where he himself became man. So it shows you that man remains his methods. As we trust God for things in Africa and Niger, we must know that God's method is man. Now you believe that somebody who was there when they killed Stephen. And then God is going to go to the Gentiles. Aah. Aah. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I don't understand. I can blame him. Why is he always been practical? Lord, I know you are in this way but this guy is like me saying, I love HLC fun. I know Lord. I understand you want the- Aah. I'm alright. He's not going to be okay. You know, any of his Abramans say, I'll refer us to them again in Isaiah 54. Moses. And look at David. Jesus, his most cited personality was David. You see, Jesus was not looking at this side. You see, let me make one this is interesting. Those who wrote the last stories of David in 20th century, you will see many things or many of the cases there. They're invited. Kolekus was downplayed. Now, post-receiving for the Seventh Samuel, but were not downplayed. And it shows you, therefore, that it is a fact that God walks in human vessels. And the incapabilities unfaithfulness of all the men going to use Rada shouz na di excelencio na pa iso god na noto nos. Dat is what you see in those tuli's. Not a license to do what you like. Is that this meant a faithful to god loyal to his word and he still retained their weaknesses yet. We saw the excelencio na pa god. Look at me okisidek. Me okisidek, these are men. Now pay attention to this. So god has always ministered his blessing through men. God will always minister his walk through men. Look at something. Do you know when we pick the story of Jesus, particularly is Matthew 22, when he refers to some one of the antennas 1 to 4. We go back and read that story that in Genesis 14, Abraham is supposed to be called by God. Pay very good attention here. In usual all missions of the earth be blessed. We say well, God had blessed Abraham. True. Genesis 12 into 13. But it was in Genesis 14 that we now see that God now use a human being Melkisidek but it feels true to 20 and it blessed Abraham. So that you will know it was not just a ceremony in the new testament. If all gets interested, some one of the antennas forces were a priest forever after the order of Melkis. What is the secret of Melkisidek is that he is the one that blesses who Abraham. No, I don't got a blessed Abraham. He used who Melkisidek. So Jesus turns into a state and is the priest of the new testament who also has a man on fast-ghosted blessings on us. In Hebrews chapter 7, so whatever God does in the earth, He does through His method, man. Hebrews 7. You know the story of Melkisidek? It says in verse 3, without father, without mother, without descent, have a neither begin of theirs nor end of life. Basically what he's saying is that he is not in the tribe of Levi. One, two, is not a Jew. And made Michael to the son of God, abided priests continually. Now just consider how great this man was. Or to who even the patriarch Abraham gave the tent of the squares, barely there there was a son of Levi who received the opposite of the priesthood, have a commandment to take types of the people according to the law. That is of their brethren, though they come out of the learns of Abraham. Now let's just take the six through to verse 7. Let's go. And he was descent, is not counted from them, received types of Abraham and blessed him that hard, look at that. He hard the promises, but this is the man who blessed him. Look at seven. Without or contradiction, the less is blessed of the greater. So the blessedness of Abraham was conferred through who, a man. He had the promise, but it was ministered to him by who? Huh? Who ordained Abraham? May I kiss the deck? Abraham ordained Isaac. Isaac Jacob, Jacob Joseph and all of that. God, ministers, is blessings through men. If you are going to look at what God is doing in there, you have to look at man. I said in the post, the second service, including his wrath. When you see people that are just or really speaking, likely of sacred things, the move of the spirit, men and women of God. Are you seeing men tweeting? I'm sending this and sending you know, Facebook, post, all about the place. We are reading the root of God. That was a scene. Because when God spower, I said, it's where it's also withdrawn. I said, where you are also good to still see men. You see the proof through men. Unthankful, disobedient folks, that are just on the streets. I said this in the other service. Well, thank you for the media that should be an access to true information to the world. Where we have a freedom to preach God's word. Satan has the power to things. Now using a freedom of speech to insights people. To cause division, to throw anger hatred, Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, to throw out obscenities and stuff like that. So what you see there is a root of God. A silence, the absence of his power. You still see men. I like we like this. Whether it's Satan or God, the focus is man. So John 114 is a necessity. The world became flesh and wealth amongst us. We did study yesterday and also today about how Jesus had been visible in the Old Testament but not a man until the four gospels. So God is anointed, a man. God gives his spiritual men so we can partner with him. How is Isaac going to no ghost plan? Abraham takes him to Mount Moriah 10th, 22. Jacob. How did Jacob get the father lehans on him? The mother Rebecca. God always uses men. Always. They are men. Now when they are working, it's good working. Don't forget we are looking at the name, none of hands. Which I'm going to, you know, press into him. We're not going to talk about each detail next week. But I think this formation is good enough, right? To always see God when you see men. And I say this is my pastime experience. You know, that that's just how to look at it. You see God when you see men. Because the highest form of ghost revelation to humanity was to become a man. Jesus Christ. So that's my job. And don't forget he's called Christ because men were called what? Christ. That's why it's called Christ. It's called Joshua because the man was called Joshua. So whatever we see in Jesus shows how God identifies with humanity. God therefore gave us his spirit so that others will receive his spirit. That's a miracle. I'll give you by impartial. I'm going to explore that next week that no, impartial is not the, not that they're putting anything inside you. It's actually an activation. Just keep quiet. I only start watching a fantasy. But some arguments are not necessary. Whether you think it is putting it inside you or taking it up with you know just habits. Some arguments are not necessary. Like I said, we have a arguing people. A man can lose his awareness. He can't lose his awareness. I admit that argument with the Christian that is saved. I said because whether you believe it or not, you are saved. So my, I mean, I've seen people arguing you like that. They say you are right, you're not, what was you like? I think it was. You are right, Joshua. I know right, Joshua. And it's not a fight. I could never like to. And they're both right, but they're not. In Christ Jesus. We are arguing over our necessary things. I say, no, you cannot be. Then they ask the guy who says he can be. So can you be lost, but we're beating. But they're people that are already lost. They should be talking to you. You know those ones. And you want to win an argument and say we continue to know. I saw the Greek. The Greek one there is. I'm not the way. I would know that I want to say, don't waste your time. Are you there? Something you want to say. I see people that are may not, they don't have much knowledge. They understand this. Now when God is doing something, He uses me. So you see some things that they are over-expecting the man. You better have faith. You know, he's affecting the man. You better have faith. What is his feelings? If I look at Abraham, when Pharaoh, Pharaoh did not know. Because I mean, when you marry a fine wife, you're not true. You're not true like that. You don't know. That's it. That woman was still, you know, so I see no cure. That woman and Abona like that babe. And then it was problems. You didn't tell me. Abraham said, Ah, well, and it took the man's assets. He didn't return it. You know, that's what happened in the Exodus too. That was Plum's brain Egypt. I know how they did it. They went to ask them to give them. I need your phone. I need your name. I need your box to give them. I need $1,000. They didn't know they were leaving. Oh, you don't know. You ignore it. You very, very dirty. You cannot have it in Jesus' name. When God wanted to preserve Moses, who did He use midnight's? I know. Well, I might be the ignorant man. They're both fast, so like, Waibah Allah dun'tah hollu ishang nina Mu ettar jaru GAR Regardless of the cultureción Abo yá Habithe Anyay Bi ta I am not spasna, I was suing play with say, say, I am going saying, I now chose how to be not trained at time. That's how they most is knew the ways of God, God used decoy. Just like the another debut, say, don't say you are going there to our company. Why does he do that? Because it's limited to man. Do you understand it? He is the best man. So the most more how God works, he uses men. Moses knew that. He said, look, since you don't want me to choose somebody else, you can't do this thing. It's not your method. So Joshua, and he lead hands on Joshua. God's blessing is ministered by man. That is a fact. It's the pattern. It will never change. And many times the men used gun shockers. They were shocked also in the book of Acts. Paul, Paul, Paul, Paul, Paul, ah! And look at the man. It's thought of a new technology, by him. That's the man. That's the man. He's like everything shocks us. They are not king. Are you there? Jacob not is all. Right? Isaac not is smell. Joseph not Ruben. Moses not the good guys. David not a leham. You know, it's always the pattern. You will now look at Paul. Paul. Paul? And you know, look at the limit. If all show does are, Paul sat down, sending text message. Paul was just tweeting, Stephen kill glory. Look like a seed. Then the next thing, you that are fast and praying, he doesn't appear to you. He appears to be Mordra. Hallelujah. Because. And then that's Paul. And very well, I said, Lord, where I understand what, ah! You are right chose from your weas. This guy. Ah! He said, go away. He said, Joseph vessel onto me. He said, Joseph vessel onto me. He will be on my name before the missions. Hallelujah. That tell you and I. You and I are God's vessels. We are God's vessels. God's vessel is mine. That's him. Who? Of them, Jesus. You know, the Baptists. I hope you look. It was from the Basin of John that Peter and Khusare following him. In fact, the validation of the ministry of Jesus was by John. What are we losing? Well, Jesus was not born by a man. Was born by a man. He gave the great commission also to men. He uses man, man, man, man, man, man. The things we have missed out, because we did not honor men. The things that God will minister to you through your spouse. So your wife can lay hands on you. Your wife can lay hands on you. The couple of times, you just, ah, goodie. Ah. You know, and then we can look at you that you told me you were going to the market. You know, you were going to this place. You are not only the spirit of God. You said things like that. And then it will take you years. You have to reverse it. What is in your Shukoto? You go to Shukoto. You said you years. Don't forget. I'll search someone that I said. In man, who was using glasses. Right? I was using glasses on the blind alleyway scene. Look at that. Wait. When Isaac ordained Jacob, he was blind. He was blind. For he did work in the supernatural. He was. Let me spare you the rest. There's a more stories. In scripture. You look at it there. I remember I was in the office of one man who was going to be blind. He was glad to come back to you on the time. So he was asking us to do something. I was in office. So he said, um, what do you currently said? You said, you don't know. I should pick the pain and rights. What he said, I didn't have the best answer to pick the one on his table. So I picked one and said, that one, that cannot write the words. Please, deal that one. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. I was too stunned to evuse anything. And that kind of man is used by God in the nations of the earth. Don't despise anybody. That clear. We are seen on Lainon of Hans. Lainon of Hans is God's ministry. And it is supernatural ministry. Do you do never despise it. Sir, questions for I close here. You let me something. So I have understanding. I have the understanding and wisdom that God uses me. He uses me. So you should also not look down on you. He uses me. He uses me. So you should also not look down on you. He uses me. And I tell people of times, you know, that as a preacher, I say, that every time I pray, say, Lord, use this vessel, weak human. All I have is trust in the grace of God. All I have was the next one. That is the grace of God that is working. When Hans are late, only. Sometimes, if you tell me, when you lay the hands on me, I will talk about that next week. And I did feel anything. I did it. At all. I was in one of the years ago. And I told myself, I'm not going to lay hands on anybody. I was going to teach. I'm going to teach. Somebody had prayed. And she said, it's good to lay hands on me. And I received. And she had part of our body. Not working. So I was just talking about the power. I was just talking about the power. I was just putting my hands on her. I didn't. I wasn't intending anything. That's how she received her healing. Then I knew even feeling. At all. Then I wanted someone to call me like that. I was a well-puzzled one. Game we were playing like that. And I was just trying to find out. And I was like, I was not supposed to find out. Shhh. You were actually like, am I like that? So I think it wasn't. And you guys said, just pray. My man was on the game. I said, if you saw something, be it. I was just talking about. That's how you wrote a long testimony. It. Me too. I did not believe like that. We know God uses me. Hallelujah. Who's following what I was saying here? Without your spouse, your cousin. God uses me. God uses me. And those men. And those like you. Hallelujah. And those who believe from the ministry are learning all of hands. It's God's method. In line. The blessed Satsura Feet is here. O Lord, my God.