 Aya, are you ready for the words? Yes, yes. There is one hand that lets us together our father, the name of your Son Jesus, in this service we receive for the light on the subject in your word. There is no error in our listening or the teaching of your word. We believe and receive. We believe and receive insight in your word with no error or confusion or destruction so that we can be heard. So get out of the church. We will be heard. Jesus Christ your Son. Even as he sees us in him is glorified as we are edified. Amen. Matthew's gospel 28. Now we began last week on in this revival, just a continuation actually. And our focus will be on the lane known of hands. I didn't leave my hands on that yet. But my hands will get there today somehow. Praise the Lord. Matthew's gospel 20. Now I mentioned that the local churches were we follow a cross curriculum. I didn't say that over and over again. And I ensure that that particular clip or that excerpts got out on the internet quickly before our editing. And the reason for that is that, you know, many we need to realize the importance of the local assembly is not where you come around and to be excited, be good. And then what the guys want to be, we'll give to you. And I said that in the earlier service in second. So we need four. Paul says, I charged you before the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead. He's appearing. He's the left angel. It says, preach the word. Let's do. Be instant in season and out of season. That is, there's no, there's no message of the season. Like everything in season and out of season. It says your view, your view, improve, improve it all. Long software, and it's not doctrine. This is the three. There's coming a time which happens every past on those. That they're no longer in your sound doctrine. They're just, can we have some nails? Can we just hear new things, you know? And I said that that's not the local assembly. And that's why we have a teaching spread across many years. And if some of them before we had this church, this church is 14 years and next year of the 15, before this church was planted at all, we had the, we had the faith family network, then the Christian and the American ministries, we called them. And we had before them the faith family fellowship and then the real family Christian center. From 19, 19, three through to 2007. Okay. Now those teaching that we talk about now from Sears County Church actually didn't begin with Sears County Church. They had been, seriously, they had been doing way before the church was planted. Which is, is a deliberate thing. What we teach, because the message of God's Word is the same thing. We can't be tied to a leaf. We can, we can have more light. Right? We should have more light. We should have more insights. You know, I was preaching for a preaching at a camp on Thursday. And I told them, I said, I was here five years ago. I said, but you know very well that from five years till now, I'm going to teach you the same thing I said five years ago, but it's not the same way. I've grown. At least a bit, I think even my parents has changed. Because I remember the first time I preached that particular conference. I was on a pety day fast. It was obvious. The way I was like, so you know, and that's it. It's the same message. It's the same thing. So I don't pray. I begin of the year, Lord. So I teach for this year. I have to. I have to walk in and love. I have to. So I think things that we have to, should I teach the authors of the believer have to, it's those are core courses. Imagine you go to law school or the faculty of law, the little teaching evidence company, what else are taught equity, landlord, I forgot in the end. Got you love you looking at me like. I'm not looking at the law of Moses. Land law, you have a law of contract, you have a constitutional law. You have options. I think you have a human rights issue, you know. You have a law, you know. You're a law, you're a law. You're a constitutional. How can human rights be optional? But those are just core things, Jewish students. They just have to know they, we don't have to know. If you go to any university in Nigeria, there are some courses that everybody has to take. So now of course, naturalism will differ. We have naturalism that are spot on. I mean, the first time I heard the vice president of Nigeria lecture, I didn't write anything. Ah, I looked at him and I went through lectures, no notes. And his touches were flying, I was like, ah, very delicious man. That's a lot, you know. But it's the same thing everywhere. Of course, those other people taught us the same course. I'm not mentioned in the name zoo. You know, but they're, ah, but it's in courses. So the courses of Christianity are the same. You don't get to say, ah, we now have to start teaching a exhibition in the outer space, you know, something like that. That doesn't come into the Bible at all. So, Matthew 28, we have that emphasis. Verse 18. Jesus came and speak on them. Say, Lord, I thought it was those paragulants on the heaven and earth. Go you therefore and teach all nations. Say, I'll tell you the word heaven. And we said the heaven there is not talking about the utmost, very heaven. Of course, the background of this is the Old Testament where you have the word Shama Yim, S H E N E Y I M. I thought you that, I mentioned that on Wednesday during the Midwifest Service. Now, Genesis 1, 1, which is heaven and earth. Now, the heaven there is not the skies because the first thing he talks about is spiritual realities, light and darkness in verse 2. And God said, let there be light. God's spirit, in verse 2. So that's spiritual. So heaven refers to the dwelling place of spirit beings. So when Jesus is all authority in the heaven, it therefore shows you that his redemptive work also went into the unseen world. Right? He's working in sacrifice, his authority is in the unseen world or the supernatural world. And that's the context of what we're saying here. So the great commission has a supernatural world background. The authority has to do with the supernatural world. And you don't need this authority in the supernatural world. It also means the message affects the supernatural world. So you cannot talk about the gospel and mention a bit of that in the first service without the supernatural world that he refers to. Go in there for and teach all nations and baptize them in any other father, the son of the Holy Ghost, teaching them 22 observed opens, what's the above command of you and learn with you always even on to the ends of the age. So the background of this message is the walk of Christ, which means I go to teach or educate people, the word didask there, about the worker Christ, which is both at the end, at the end of what? Definitely. That it deals with man in the scene world and also in the own scene world. Ends the giving of the spirit. You see that shortly. Why is this giving to coming into gospel is just a matter of academic conversation. Then there's no requirement or need for the spirit. I don't need this spirit to make an intelligent discussion. I just need to just be intelligent enough. And that's it. But the spirit is given so that we can communicate this message, which is supernatural already in a supernatural way. So we'll learn that in the local church. That's probably good. And then you have max 16, 15 to 20. Basically, it's going to all the world and preach the gospel. Again, the word gospel, Huat Jaleon. Huat Jaleon is Greek, but it's taken from the Hebrew context. Now, I said this before. Let me ask whether you can remember. The Jesus used translations. Okay, good. And he used the Hebrew, Greek, and Latin also was involved in the things that... Because now there won't have that. And we said, the Old Testament had a Greek translation called a Septurgent. If you have Bibles that have study references, you see the word LXS, LXX. Which refers to 70, means Septurgent. Now, the Septurgent is the Greek ranger in the Old Testament. Which was used largely by not only Blue, but largely by the Apostles and Jesus himself. So the words gospel here can be read in the Old Testament. Like I showed them in the first sentence, the word Empress Dow can also be read in the Old Testament. The word gospel can be read in the Old Testament as the Hebrew word Bazaar. And it simply refers to a kingdom and its news, the kingdom and its news. So Jesus is talking about a kingdom and that kingdom is heavenly. That means that kingdom is supernatural. So in Mark 16 and 15, says going to all the world, pray the gospel through every creature. He W. is in his baptize, shall we say it? He W. shall be done. The reason why you have signs is because the message is supernatural. The signs semi-ion in the Greek that follow, which is the word off, OTR, OTH in Hebrew, Genesis 1, 14, signs, post seasons in the earth. They have semi-ion signs and it's the signs of all the end of the week. In my name, there's a cast out demon. The first sign is supernatural. You don't cast out the demon by intelligent conversation. Can I have an amen? So you then say, you shall speak with new tongues, supernatural things. You say, take off servants, supernatural. Think that the devil is going to hurt them. They have to seek the sickle. Why are the signs supernatural because the kingdom is supernatural? The message, the bazaar. The bazaar is our report. We are reporting to men, not the events happening in Europe or Nigeria. We don't preach COVID-19. That's not what we preach. We preach what is happening in the supernatural. That's the kingdom we're talking about. And whatever is happening in that supernatural, we bring them to bear amongst men. That's what gospel means. So he says they went to the Lord, spoken to them, what's into heaven. Heaven there is not a space outside the earth. It simply means that he changed where, he changed location from being seen to not be seen. That's all he's talking about. He was not seen by natural. How did they know where he went to if he was not seen at all? He was not seen, right? We'd make it as, you can call that. But he's seen at the right hand of the father amongst men, right? Another father simply means in the place of dominion, majesty and authority. And the twenty-sixth, they went forth and preached everywhere. The Lord walking with them, confirming the word with signs, following, then he says, amen. This is the mandate of God for every believer. This is the mandate of God for all sins. It will be the sins community, Hallelujah. John's gospel, twenty-twenty-two. Then he came with bread unto them and said, receive the Holy Ghost. Receive the Holy Ghost. Whatever sins you remit, they are remitted unto them. Whatever sins you retain, they are retained. He breed unto them and forstow, which I'm going to focus on in a moment, and forstow, I mentioned a bit of that, much of that in the first service, and get back there again. Now, look at that, what he breed unto them and said, receive the Holy Ghost. And just stay there and come back to Luke 24. In Luke 24 and verse 25, where he says to them, oh, fools, and slow heart to believe all of the prophets have spoken. Old websites also for these things, of no Christ, also for these things, and to enter into his glory. And begin that moose and on the prophets, he expanded them in all the scriptures, the things considered himself. And we said that prophets are agents of the supernatural. Remember that? Can you remember that? Agents of the supernatural. Prophets are those who have the words of the spirit, or you call them, interpretas of the supernatural. Nabi in the Hebrew, N-A-B-I. Profectis in the Greek, P-R-O-P-H-E-T-E-S. They both mean to interpret divine things. Now, listen carefully here. Jesus, therefore, by asking us to listen to the prophets and read what they have said, has given us the background of the scriptures as supernatural, which means we must see the Bible in the setting of the supernatural. Where do I mean by that? Now, if there is a gain going on, a football game, and I say, he defended well. What I'm basically saying is that there was an opponent who brought the ball and he uses feet on his legs. But when I say in a courtroom, and I say, he defended well, I know you don't think that the guy hits somebody in the face. It's simply spoke. And you use the necessary authorities. He defended well. If also I'm talking about it in the marketing conference. Let's say someone is preaching an idea. And then a question is asked, who wants to sell an idea for a pronounced house or a pronounced organization. So he defended it well. Now, three different settings are used the same word. Who's following what I'm saying here? Now, if you miss the setting, you will miss the use of the words. So the Bible is said, sorry, in a supernatural world. If it's in a supernatural world, I mustn't miss the world. It's referring to. I mustn't miss the context. The moment Jesus asked us to go to the prophets or listen to the prophets, it simply means he gives us a supernatural world where we need to look at very well. Again, he repeats himself in 44. These are the words which I speak on to you, what I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses, in the prophets, and in the Psalms, constantly meet again, prophets is mentioned. You'll be only the understanding that they might understand the scriptures. Now, listen carefully. Notice there's a sequence in 25. He says, prophets, twice before he says scriptures. In 44, he mentions prophets, then in 45, it talks about scriptures. Now, in 1733 and 16, Paul says the same thing. All scriptures, which is the writing to document to write, scriptures simply means to write something down. That's what it is. From the word graph A, G-R-A-P-H-E in the Greek story, and graph 4, which is a verb to write. So he says, before they were written, they were for spoken. So which means that what is written was or were first spoken. Second Timothy, second Peter one, sorry. No prophecy of the scripture. It's of any private interpretation. But boy, God, they're in verse 19. He says, we have a more short word of prophecy. Prophetic one in the Greek, words of prophets. You do well as you take it as you do well. You take it as the day star, and the day, the day don't sorry, and the day star arises in your heart. So basically, he's telling you that there were first words of prophets before they were written. Which means, even though they are written in human language, Greco-Roman, New Testament, Hebrew Old Testament, within the ancient nearest and culture, Old Testament, Greco-Roman culture, New Testament, they were first words of prophets. So the first words about the supernatural now express in human culture. If I miss the context, and I just know the culture, I miss the meaning. If I know the context, and not the supernatural context, I don't know the communication use, which is the human language. I also mean, I use it, I lose it, pardon me. So I need to look at what is written from the two contexts. There's not one single method to interpret scripture. I've said that to the over and over again. So there is the world that the prophets are interpreting. It's a supernatural world. They are interpreters. So before he says scriptures, he says words of prophets. Just like John 5.39, you search the scriptures for them to think you have eternal life. They would testify of me. But in 45, think not that I'm come to accuse you before the father. There is one which I accuse you before the father, Mosul, who we trust. Then he says, Do you believe Moses? You have believed me for your role of me? You do not believe what I'm saying, because you never believe his words, message. So what that means is, even though it is written in human language, which is a context in itself, I must not forget that it is an interpretation of the supernatural world. And that's important. Before they were written, they were spoken. And therefore, they are written so that they should be spoken. That is the Bible for you, on the scriptures. Before they were written, they were spoken. They are spoken so that they can be written so that they can be spoken. Which means the written word does not in any way deny the supernatural world of the words used in scripture. I mustn't miss it. That's why I emphasize that the scriptures is like the incarnation. 100% God, 100% man, 100% supernatural, 100% natural in communication and language. But 100% in the context of the supernatural. Let me see how I'm going to follow in this. Is he making sense? Very good. So here we are, go back to John 20, where Jesus breathed on them, and we're done with the first service as well. He didn't literally put his nose trills in their head. That's not what he did. Rather, the word M Fusau, if you look at the Bible of Jesus, you didn't have Matthew. The Bible of Jesus didn't have Matthew. Fusau, I hope my son is fine. I'm noticing something I'm keeping. The Bible of Jesus is Genesis to Malachi, in Hebrew and Greek. Are we on the same page? So which means in my study, I look for those words in the Old Testament Greek. Are we making sense? Very good. So where do we find those words in Old Testament Greek? Is Zika 37 verse 9, and Genesis 2 verse 7. Now, is Zika 37 verse 9? Then he said unto me, prophesy unto the wind. Now, notice the wind is in John 3 verse 7, and 8, Jesus, prophesy unto the wind. Propesy son of man and say to the wind. Thus, hear the Lord God. Come from the four winds, all breath, and breathe upon this lane that they may leave. Now, the word breathe upon is in John 20, 22, the same word M Fusau. So Jesus in His inclination resurrection is fulfilling that prophecy of Zika. Prophecy, Nabah, and a BA, it means to preach the words of God, to preach the words of God or a supernatural being. Or let's say the words of the Spirit. In Genesis 2.7, we find the same thing in the creation of man. God breathed into His breast, into His nostrils, the breath of life. Genesis 2.7, that's the same word M Fusau. So Jesus in John 20 is fulfilling the prophecy of His Zika. By Zika 36 and 26, a new heart, a new spirit, what I put within you, I'll take you with a sword of your flesh, I'll give you a heart of flesh. I'll put within you, my spirit, you walk in my sedentance, judgment, you do them. How is it going to happen? Is it going to happen? In 37. Son of man can these dribbles lead. Oh, you know, trophies, five. Verse five, is it going to be 37? Propies five simply means take the words of the Spirit or the words of life and say it onto these ones. Now listen, was this what Jesus did in John 20? Huh? Come on. So John 20 was that he communicated God's Spirit by words, by preaching and teaching. And John 3.34, go there quickly, John 3.34. John 3.34. This is about Jesus. So look up one more time. What is the purpose I? Oh, come on, talk to him. To what? Take the words of the supernatural, right? And communicate some man. Is that what it means? Okay. Come and say the words of life, the words of the Spirit. Good. John 3.34. Let's take it together. This is describing Jesus. Let's go. I wish for everyone. Let's go. For he will not, as sense speaks the words of God, or God gives not the Spirit by measure. Okay. John 6.63. John 6.63. It is the Spirit that quickly. Is that Ezekiel? Let's go. The flesh, prophets, nothing. The words I speak to you, they are what? Is that purpose I? Is that purpose I? John 6.68. Let's go. Simon Peter answered and said, Lord, to whom shall we go? Now have the words of eternal life. So which means, when Jesus rose from the dead, what did he communicate to his apostles? The words of eternal life. So that is Ezekiel, tell the servant, come to pass. Now what did he now do? Come on now. He now said, receive the Spirit. And whosoever sings you, remit, are remitted, whosoever sings you, you with love, or you attain, are equally retained. Now what is he saying? He's asking them to also keep prophesying. So the preaching of the gospel can be also referred to as prophesying. Acts 5.20. This is Peter now, when he was delivered from jail, body angel. What was the angel said to him? Acts 5.20, let's take it together. Go stand. I'll wait for you. Let's go. Acts 5.20, go stand and speak in the temple to the people. Uh-huh. All the words of these life. Glory to God. Glory to God. Is it natural life or supernatural? Uh-huh. So when you preach the gospel to anyone, are your words words of this life or the supernatural life. Very good. So which means that in you are in the stead of that Old Testament prophet today, who takes the words of God, the words of the Spirit, the words of the supernatural, and brings it to man. So prophets are interpreters of the supernatural. They interpret the supernatural to man, seeing is a supernatural thing. Seeing is not mere sociological, it's not mere conduct, even though it's a conduct, seeing is supernatural. That is why the root of it is called the flesh, and not your physical body, it constituent itself, the flesh, walk in the Spirit, and you will not fulfill the loss of the flesh. If loss of the flesh means desire of the body, then we are all in trouble. That's not... It's not about desires of the body. Desire of the body. Simply means what your body wants. Your body wants food, your body wants to sleep, that can be seen. So the flesh in Scripture, Galician's Word 19, Galician's Word 16, 17, refers to a supernatural, constituent, or disobedience towards God. That's another thing. So Jesus gives us the background of the Scriptures. It is supernatural world, communicated to us in natural terms. So what are Genesis 1-1? In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The very inception of Scripture sets us a supernatural background, heaven and earth. So which means the Bible, watch me now, this is critical. The Bible is an overlapping between the natural and the supernatural. Heaven and earth. The communication of heaven and earth is what you have in the Bible. And that must be how you see it. It's not CRK. It's not a book of commerce. It's not a book for business schools. What is in the Bible will have the language of business schools. Why? The language of football games, just like I said earlier, the language or words used in football games was used in a commercial world but it's not about the commercial world. It's about the supernatural world. So when He made the shamayim, He made the shamayim a place for spiritual beings, which means God did not intend that this earth the only natural. He created the natural and the supernatural to walk together. I want you to follow this very fine. So when Jesus, the incarnation of Jesus, is heaven and earth. God becoming flesh is not the, it shows us the perfection of His intention. 100%. God, 100%. Man, natural and supernatural. We said that last week, remember that the incarnation of Jesus is like Genesis. Remember that. Come on, guys. Can you remember that? The incarnation of Jesus because listen, this is how I was raised. And I've been raised through. If you're coming to church, you read the notes of last week. Don't just write notes and document. Where are some guys like that? After church, we see their notes here. So they're just following everybody. They're just writing. You read them. You study them. So that by the next session, the next class, the next service, you are already ready to listen to the next thing. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Don't forget that. So is the incarnation like Genesis? Is it like creation? Yeah. The Holy Ghost, Opa Shaddos Mary. The Holy Ghost is upon. The Ministry of Jesus is just like that. Look at John 1. So the incarnation is reflecting new creation. The Ministry of Jesus, John 1, is also new creation. The Statitude. I saw the Spirit descend on Him from heaven. Like a dude. Every time you read from heaven there, it's not talking about a planet. It means the unseen world. Is that very clear? I told you one of the, one of the theology that is most misleading. In an upcoming book, this is our God. You're going to find more content there. Is the theology of heaven is where believers go when they die. I've not said, believe us, don't go there when they die. Don't miss out on me. But that is not what heaven means. It's a wrong theology. That not offer the Bible studies. Not all the New Testament. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. So heaven here, here's the supernatural. John is a prophet, right? He will interpret what was going on at heavenly or from the supernatural world. It's a burden here. He says, the Holy Ghost came on Jesus and he said, he is the one verse 33 that baptizes with the Holy Ghost. In Matthew 3, 11-12, Jesus is said to be, to baptize with the Holy Ghost. Mark 1-8 to baptize with the Holy Ghost. Luke 3, 16, and 17. Why? Because John saw the Spirit upon him. Just like creation. John knows God is about to do something new. The Spirit upon means God is about to do something. Or God is doing something. John knew that's what is going on here. The angels knew that was what he went to, that's what happened to Mary. At the incarnation. At the baptism again, the same scenario was repeated. At the incarnation, the Holy Ghost came up on Mary and then, you know, she'd be, she'd be God. You don't have a problem with that. I don't sound Catholic. More of God. That's what she was. Sign of the cross. Also, at the baptism, we saw Genesis replied, the Spirit of God upon and he translated in waters. In Luke 4-18, Jesus says, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because He has anointed me. Luke 4-18. So it's repeated again. Luke 4-18. He has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor. He sent me to heal the broken hearted. All these things are supernatural. To preach the leavens to the captives. Corp. of sides of the blind. To set at Leibbrandt in their Bruce. I explained this to you very well that the poor here are the broken hearted. The broken hearted are the captives. The captives are the blind that needs liberty. So it's not talking about different people. So you don't fulfill this by giving it in the name of God. Or shoes or clothes. No, there's no wrong in that. I love, I do it. I like people to do it. To do charity. To help people who I need. But what is seen here? He's spiritual. The poor here are the same ones who have broken hearted. Who are captives. He says, the Spirit is upon me. And notice again, when He rose from the dead, He said the same tone. Luke 24-49. Luke 24-49. Acts 1-8. You shall receive power. After which the Holy Ghost is come upon you. New creation. New beginning. God is doing something in the earth. Acts 1-8. John 20-22. Receive He the Holy Ghost. And last week I, there was a text, I just remember that. I didn't, I, I hadn't, I had an arrow. I just only corrected. Genesis 30-27. Last week we said that the serpent is a divine being. Remember that? Remember that? A supernatural being. The word nakaash, which is divination. Remember that very well. So just the text that I skipped. Actually, we spoke to this. I wanted to go back to it. Genesis 30. And verse 27. I said 7, that I didn't get it. 27. He said 11 said unto him. To, to Jacob. Approving if I found favor in the eyes. For I have learned by experience. Learn by experience. There is a word nakaash, divination. I have learned by experience. It's to know something supernatural. So here we are. We are. What happened to Eve was supernatural. It wasn't procre- it's made to stint the uva-somega. It's a supernatural thing. So the very genesis of sin was a supernatural setting. Sin has both a natural setting and a supernatural setting. That's why when we preach the gospel. What we do is that we pull down strongholds. It's called a war. And it's not a war that we fight with human weapons. Because what we are preaching again, so let's see what we are preaching. And setting men free from is supernatural. So never view sin as mere cultural perversion. So let's say just a cultural perversion. There's a paper I did a couple of weeks back. Where was the sub-people I wasn't a major one. And where I said that, I use an example that I was surprised to myself. That ancient cultures had women. And they were the go- They are breasted. I wasn't nudity. Because it's culture. But today's nudity, why? Because it's still culture. So which means that, listen carefully now, when we talk about sin, the rebellion is not as much as what is done, but why it is done. The women that were their breasted were not trying to attract men or show their sexuality. And I explained that in that paper. It was an anthropological explanation of salvation. Sorry, what I guess is. It's not for you, right? But in today's world, it becomes the same thing. Because in that context now, there is a spirit with it that shows what it is. So it does well. My ancient... That's the Adam. My ancient mother, another, so the profession, right, is a definitely rebellion against something. So when you find people dressed nakedly or dressed explicitly to pass a message across, or in one of the words, they are dressed in a different way. They are dressed in a different way. They are dressed in a different way. They are dressed in a different way. They are dressed in a different way. They are dressed in a different way. Or in other word, what a format. That is an expression. And I said, that's an anthropological. It becomes a social record factor to the fact that you are rebellion against something and expressing. So sin is supernatural. Sin is supernatural. Sin, what you did with the spiritual. Petsekatatatatat bat at q布atattatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatat atatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatatat you can't get that by doing laws, you get the change. That's what Israel fought was to impose the worship of God in nations and they weren't quite in number but at the Latin Never-Sist. That's the best the flesh can do until Jesus rose from the dead and took on Prince Paz and Pa and Maiden Dumey and all by himself and gave us a message, Hallelujah. So we have one more nation than Israel with one more nation in 2000 years than Israel tried in 4000 years. Hallelujah. By the word of God. So the quiet is sin is supernatural. Who's following this? Come on. Does it make sense? He's supernatural. All right. So now, it keeps in that one of the precisely then and began that last week is that God always, not just like he, God always works with his creatures. Whatever God is doing, you will see an agency with man or his creatures. The Bible opens up with that. Look at this now. In Genesis 1, I'll run through something quickly for you. Genesis 1, 26. Big man's image, a fair likeness. But in Genesis 1, 1, God created heavens in it and 2, it says darkness was upon the face of the deep. That's not matter. He's not talking about matter. Darkness was upon the face of the deep and the spirit of God moved upon it over and over it, over the darkness. Watch that. The spirit of God moved over the darkness obviously to lead men out of darkness and God says let there be light. And in Genesis 1, 26, he made man in his image after his likeness to fulfill Genesis 1, 2 and 3. Man is now to fulfill to have dominion. So the work of the spirit of Genesis 1, 1, 2, 3 is to be kind of by man, God's agent. The spirit is upon man. Hello. Are you with me? When God said let there be light, who is he going to say through? Man. Paul will call me second Corinthians 4, 3. If I've got to be healed, third Corinthians 4, 3, is he to them who are lost in whom the God of his world has blinded the minds of them that believe not. Let the light of the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ is shining on their hearts. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness. As cost that same light to shine in the face of Jesus Christ. Then he says, we preach not ourselves, but Jesus Christ. And all we are your servants for Christ's sake. Second Corinthians 4, from verse 3 to 6, which shows you that Genesis 1, 3 is about the preaching of the world. And I was going to do that. Let's make man in our image of our lightness. Image is a representative term, celem, TSEM. In the world where this was written, supernatural being used what you call celem's image, the mood, likeness. God's agency in the earth will be man. Watch this now. The purpose of my life and yours and every Muslim watch this now. Every idol watch it because God made them is to be his image. That's God's purpose, to be his representatives. And you see that setting in Adam. Watch what I'm about to see. So Genesis 1, 1, 2, 3 is fulfilled by man in the image of God. Or like I've constructed up for you again, ask the image of God. Who's following this? Come on. Are you getting this? Come on. Are you following this? Very good. Genesis 2, we find the act type of man. Adam act type seems to me, celem is something you will see generally man. Now God's life is in a garden. You can call it a secret area, secret space. Call it where God is. And you have God's true man and putting in the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it. Watch man's mission or man's work is to be a custodian of God's presence. I love that song. I was born to be God's dwelling place. A home for the presence of my love. I let my, you know the song. Oh my God. Oh, I let my life look at me. Rue song is I was born to be your dwelling place. A home for the presence of my God. So let my life now be separated unto be. So I can be what I was born to be. You mind the well. You know it. You mind the well. Your name is called. Oh, you know. I have given you the full song. We have touched. And that's the song is true cause. Nine is made to dress and keep the garden. What who is in the garden? Oh, no, no, no, God's presence. Hallelujah. Is that clear? That's what is in the garden. And man's work in the earth is to be a custodian of it. So Adam is our first prophet in the Bible, the first priest in the Bible, the first king in the Bible. He is to have an interplay between heaven and earth. That is why it's a separate shoulder and every being. So you and I are to walk into walls. Whose following is? Come on. Though that is in the supernatural and the natural man is the best of the two walls. Man, animals, all of those creatures man is the best of the two walls. It's a dress, a bar, a push-le-duty and keep it a duty of a prophet. That is why watch this in Genesis 2. Of course marriage experts have twisted this. Genesis 2, verse 21. It says God cost man to fall in a deep sleep. And then when he fell into this deep sleep, he now took his ribs and closed rubbish flesh. I told you that no biological is rubbish. I can't even think that God now takes breath. So you go missing rib. Missy rib. They are not missing that. They are falling sick. So anytime you feel the pain, you are going to look for wherever you are loving. Wherever you are loving is your missing rib. I told you that the rib they have to do with the construction of a temple. Right? So which means that God's temple, right? He is male and female. That's what it means. I know you know that, right? You have to have taught you that. You have to know it. Praise the Lord. If you don't know it, that means two things, three things, four things. One, you are not around when I taught it. And it wasn't once, it wasn't twice, it was three times. Where were you? Two, or you were around and you were sleeping. Or you were dreaming something. Or three, you were a chancey fan. That's an important part of this. I don't know for actually. I'm looking for four. Okay, man, you find that because you know, devils are like that. Amen. But you know, we were to wear the old ammo, God. And that's easy, Lord. Praise the Lord. Where was I? We're in the garden last semester. Ghost presence. Okay, Adam, right? So I said, my marriage, at first I've said, you know, go to crib. The deep sleep there. And what Adam saw, Adam saw something. He's not, he's not, I know. I said, well, surgery. No, deep sleep is vision. That's a system. So God wants his man to see visions. Just following what I'm saying here. Come on. Are you there? God wants his man to see visions and have an interplay with the supernatural. He also had the same interplay. Abel did and came. Genesis 15 and verse 12. When the sun was down, it deep sleep fell upon Abraham. The same thing, a deep sleep, which refers to visions, Joseph, Joseph, Adam had a vision. Why did he have a vision because he's a prophet? I've told you, Adam is not the senior boy of sinners. He's okay. The principal of sinners. Even the guy that is doing his own team himself is blaming Adam. Do you know him? Those boy are named. Genesis 15, the seed of the seed of the seed of the seed of the seed. Genesis 15, the seed of the woman who bruised her head for the serpent. That's supernatural, which means our work here on earth is supernatural. So watch this very well. God wants to re-walk the earth. He wants to put the earth in purpose. He uses man. Again, when man sings or consonants in Genesis 15, what's he going to do again? The seed of the woman. Whatever God does in the earth, he does with his creatures. God can do that us. Sure, but he doesn't. So God, if he wants to know God's pattern of doing things, God always uses his creatures. He doesn't. What's his God never acts alone? Can he act alone? He is also efficient, but he has made himself vulnerable to man, honeywafers with man. Again, another challenge in Genesis 6, the earth is corrupt, verse 5 through to 7, what does he do again? He finds a man. Noah, Genesis 6, verse 8 and 9. Noah found grace on the sides of God, and God, he wasn't Joseph, man, perfect in the generations of Noah, what we got. Perfect, then doesn't mean the guy doesn't do he just means innocence. Because if you read the latter part of Noah, you know the, or my or perfect, or sorry, that's the other thing, almost what, sorry. Okay, guys, that guy was the perfect. That's what he was just a man. That's like Job, you know. Perfect, Joseph means innocent guy. Okay, that's what he means. Now, now follow this now. So God uses man. Again, Genesis 11, there's a problem. Men came together to build a tower. All right, and the tower is to reach into heaven. That's what you have. That's not reaching to the skies. Please do. The heaven there is, it was a building for supernatural beings, a temple of a source. So if you think that is the yellow book you read, that thing is like the tower of Shibu, Jibai in Dubai or something. I don't know how I need building beyond the, beyond the clouds. See, whatever you're trying to do, but we have not done let go, come and stop us. You are no well. The next chapter, they were to build a name, a great name for themselves. In Genesis 12, God wants to correct that. He calls out Raham. All that God does in the earth, whenever God speaks, is creatures are his agents. We're talking about the Lena of hands. But when you give you a proper background, God always, now I've said, use his man, but I've probably didn't see that. God uses his creatures. And man is the best of two worlds. So pay attention to man. Look at Genesis 15. God tells Abraham something by four knowledge through four sites. In 13, this is no of a shorty, Genesis 15, 13. Your seed shall be stranger in the land as not theirs. Yes, it's 13, 13. And shall serve them. They will afflict them 400 years. Then it is our George. That nation afterwards, they shall come up with great substance. God says, I will do it. Exodus 6.6. They are telling you here. Exodus 6.6. And the Lord, I will bring you out from another body of the Egyptians. I will read you out of their bondage. I will redeem you with a straight hand. I will. First person through now. God says, I will. Pay attention there. Look at Genesis 45. And verse 5. This was after they are discovered Joseph. You know his brothers thought he was dead. They found him. He revealed himself to them. And Joseph your brother. He was for whom you saw to eat it. Now he says, in verse 5, pay attention there. Be not greed. Not angry with yourselves. That you served me. For God, this sent me before you to one. See that? God uses a man. And this word is the word Michair. M-I-C-H-Y-H. M-I-C-H-Y-H. Now, in person it's used for preserving animals majorly. Leviticus 1310 and 1324. Those are the Leviticus 1324. What is also for sustenance? George is 64. George is 1710. George is 64. George is 1710. George is 174. George is 1710. Second clinicals 14 verse 13 to recover. Second clinicals 1413 to recover. Ezekiel, the Ezra 9 and 8. A minute. I just saw a text. I don't think I remembered. So wherever God was saying to them, He was going to do it through through Joseph. So when God says, I will do something, expect to see Him. Ezra 9, 8. 9, 8 and 9. So revive, yeah. So God was a preserved life. He sent someone. So when God says, I will pay attention. Who is He going to use? So therefore our relationships with men is our relationship with God. Now, don't forget what we read earlier. What did he promise Abraham? He said he was George that nation said free. You see that what he thought Abraham? Come on. In Exodus 6, is that what he also said? Now, let's see how he does it. Exodus 3, 8. Are you in charge? Exodus 3, verse 8. Watch verse 8. Let's take it together. I am calm down. Oh, come on guys. Let's let's go. I am calm down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians to bring them out of that land. Look at verse 10. Come now. Therefore, I will send the unfair that thou mayest bring forth my people. Can you see that? So what God will do? Who is His image? Who is His image? Man is His image. Look at verse 17. Verse 17 again. Come on. Let's go. I will. Bring you up out of the affliction. I will. Verse 20. I will stretch out my hand as much as you don't want this. I'll give you the means enough that I he will let you go. But how does he do it? Exodus 6, the world red earlier, verse 68. I will bring you out. I'll take you for me to a people. Look at verse 13. Let's take verse 13 together. Let's go. I'm not speaking. Existence 6. Let's go. And let's take on some verses and on the way. Gone. And it's fair to keep to bring the children of Israel out. So how is God doing it? So God's ways are not mysterious. God has a pattern. And that pattern must be understood. Now this is possible to me. But I shared because I mean to be years now. Almost 30 years ago. And I'm studying the word. I'm talking about following those plans for my life. And lots said this to me. This is to me. But I believe I can safely say that you can learn from it. He said, if you want to know how to listen to me. Listen to me. Because that's how I speak. And I found out really true. That you listening to me. If you listen very well, you see that that's how God works. Man is God's agents. Listen to me. Is it in one world or two worlds? The interplays between two worlds. The uptight man is a perfect king and priest. And so that is how God works in the next dose 23, but 20. Watch this. Existence 23. I will send an angel before you to keep me in the way to bring me to the place that I have prepared. So he's he's talking about supernatural, supernatural, supernatural, supernatural, supernatural. Look at the axiomia fossils. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. Hallelujah. There is no solitary follower of God. Even watch this out. Look up guys. Jesus, I showed you. When Jesus who is God came to the earth. Where did he last scriptures from then? Ah, looks gospel verse two. It's a bit too sorry. Verse 40. It says he grew. How did he do it? Verse 40. It says he grew. How did he grow? We found him sitting among the doctors of the law asking them questions. Verse 32 says in our grew. There's no boy that grows in his bedroom. That is why the concept of sitting at home are using your phone. I said you are in church. You are in soup. You are in soup. You are not in any church. You are in a delirious deception of grand delusion. You're right. You're right. How did I start? Delirious. God must have the hook me. What the point is on the TV show. Have this pastor relationship with the Holy Spirit. Yeah, and you don't need speaker. Get the boyfriend and stop that nonsense. What kind of rubbish talk is that? I'm going to read verse 34. I've seen the official people. I've heard the world read LA. Come down to deliver them. Now I'm come to do something. I will send you to Egypt. Now this same Moses that God sent to be a rule of a 35 and delivered by the end of the angel that appeared to him. So he is the deliverer by the end of the angel. Acts 7. Watch this. Verse 37. A professional of your God was up. He's in 15 now. Your brain larkens to me. Him shall you hear. This is he which wasn't chosen to be the list. Which angel which spoke to him in the marks in I with a phallus who received the Holy oracles. Library oracles are to give unto us. To whom a phallus will not obey. They thrust him from them and in their hearts turned back again unto Egypt. Same to Iran. Now notice. All then if you read the Exodus to have showed it up before they will mama against Moses by the Bible states against the Lord. So you could think of I'm just it's not going to be as you. I don't be stupid. Whatever God does he does with me. He does with his creatures. In the Emozilemon go that quickly. He moved the level. By faith 23 it was when he was born as Moses. He was three months by his parents because his soul was a proper child when I heard of King's commandment. By faith verse 24 Moses when it was come to years refused to be called the son of Pharaoh and all that now by faith. 27th he was spoke Egypt. Not friend of all of the king. Verse 28 by faith he kept the past over. The sprinkler of blood. List he that is so the fogman should touch them. By faith they passed through the sea. As by dry land which it's usually as I say to do. How did God do this? Through Moses. You know when we go to before the Red Sea, Exodus 14. And he said, oh, what are they crying? Moses, that's still. She said, oh, God, God said to them, why are you talking to me? Stretch watch it. You are you are the one that's going to do this job. Man is the agency of God in the earth. All God does. He uses men. I wish I could take some time to also say including his judgments. He uses his creatures. Hallelujah. He uses men. Look at Exodus. Sorry, Numbers 27. Numbers 27. And 17. After from 26, let the Lord, the God of the spirits of our flesh, set a man over the congregation. Which may go out. Now Moses knows is no longer going with them. But Moses knows that someone has to play his role. Someone has to interpret God's will to the people. Someone has to be the agents. The image of God before them. So Moses says, you know, I'm not going. I know. I know. I know you have experienced me. You have prosecuted me this work. So let him choose a man over the congregation. Look at 17. Which may go out before them. That they may go in before. Which may leave them out. Which may bring them in. Now let's see the B parts together. That what? Of the Lord being of a ship. With no by God. The Lord is our shepherd. The Lord is your shepherd. True man. Hallelujah. God is the shepherd of Israel. Some nights and some 80. And verse 1. Here he, all shepherd of Israel. That would mean this. Just like a flock. That would go between the curb and the man for his dog in the dog has a shepherd of Israel. But God, the shepherd of Israel, uses man to carry out his task. Jesus said in Matthew 9, 36 to 38. He saw the people like sheep without shepherd. Said, pray, a lot of the harvest that he may send for the laborers into his own harvest. God uses man. Hallelujah. Anytime we pray. For let's like we, we, charismatic too. We pray for revival. Oh God, moving our nation. He's going to use man. And sometimes this is by the way, but sometimes we're praying for the political walls. We're praying for the God. Oh God, we need, we need God in the man. We need God in the foundation. There you see, but I chose any politician. Hey, for that. Be careful. I was somewhere and I told them, I said, do you know how my politician? Yeah. Huh? You, I said yes. So what I told you privately is that, when I have politician, I think, prostitutes. I said, what is bad thinking? We pray that what's God going to do? We just a couple of morning and then you'll see on the network news. She, who by speaking hello, feeling like yes. And I just are a big deal. No. It's a we need man. Hey man, just like you, you're in perfect self. That's that's what God is going to use. Amen. Up up these. Hallelujah. That's all the men he used to have. Not a guy. Is that good? All the other guys. You know, Abraham was, I was just an ordinary guy. Very ordinary guy. You want your browns blessings? If you want his money, do you know how he made his money? Even Juba looked to me. Are you a church? So God uses man. Is he got 34? Are you a church? Don't forget we're talking about the layman of our hands. Hallelujah. Hope we have a good background. Huh? God always uses men. Is he got 34? God. Hell, God. Now he is Georgian shepherds, right? Who have left his sheep to wander? In verse seven. Three to nine. They look at verse 11. No, say the Lord. I was such my sheep and seek them out. I was a shepherd. Six out is flock in the day. That is a mongi sheep that's cut so well. I seek out my sheep. I know another place where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day. I will feed my flock in 15. I will seek them. Now, how is he going to do this? I will judge them. I'll give them a covenant of peace. How is he going to do it? He is going to send shepherds. That's what he's going to do. He's going to send them, watch this. He's going to send shepherds. So whatever God will do, one minute, whatever he will do, he will use men to accomplish it. One minute. He will use men to accomplish. What he will do? Now, look at verse verse 27. The two other fields shall you have fruits and earth. Give that increase. They shall be safe in their land. I've broken the bonds. They shall no more be a prey. Now, verse 9, I'll raise up for them. The plant of renown and they shall be no more consumed. On getting landed, they shall the shame of eating anymore. Verse 31, you are my flock. The flock of my pasture are men and I am your God. Say it. The Lord God. So God will give new what how he's going to do this. He's going to send shepherds to this nation. He's going to use men. So God has come as a shepherd for gospels. But don't forget as a man. He doesn't change the pattern. He's going to save man by man. His methods didn't him using men didn't start with the four gospels. He started with Genesis. And here's Jesus again. As I tell you, as there are 14, from verse 3 to verse 9 and 10, this is God. What does he do? Mark 3, 14. He calls disciples to himself so that they might preach the gospel. He uses men again. In Max 6, Max 6, go to Max 6. Here, Jesus was rejected. Scripture says he couldn't do any mighty walk in verse 5, except that he lit his hands on the sick, few sick folk, and healed them. He marveled because of the omelette. He went around the building and he was going to go to the church and go to the church and go to the church and go to the church and go to the church and go to the church and go to the church and the village is teaching. How did he do this? Look at verse 7. He called on to him 12 and began to send them for 2 by 2 and gave them power over on clean streets. Jesus wants to cure the rejection of Jesus and he uses more men. God won't change the pattern. He will use more men. Hallelujah. That hallelujah. A look 9 and look 10, he calls men. He sends them out. In Matthew 9 to 10, he does the same thing. When he rolls from the dead, he says, All right, now you guys have messed up. I am God. Can you see I roll from the dead? So buy my wheel. The old man, let me establish a prupacabusha. Well, I just got ready. He doesn't look. He calls the 12 men. As God now, ordinary guys, guys that I won't choose, I'll sell it. But what am I? He says, he says, I don't sell a guy. But one of them was a big man guy. He calls the whole thing. He said, come on, come on. But that was so trouble. He said, well, I do not sell my men. I don't know this guy. He never met me. He said, well, I was 11 years. I lived in. He said, well, he saw the cross. He picked grace. He saw the same people. He says, go into all the world. Because that's the pattern. Hallelujah. And preach the gospel to every creature. Does God expect us to do right, live right or show it or show it us? By also knows we fall short. And that is no discolification at all. Because God uses the same uses the same man that I feel weak, imperfect and get it wrong. Hallelujah. You learn something? So God always uses man. Always uses his creatures. Always uses creatures. So when people talk about God is in control and he says, God is sovereign God. He's sovereign God. We bring the book out on that next month. Praise the Lord. He's sovereign. It's probably of all the series is probably the most concentrated. He says, God is sovereign. God is control. God is one doing it. He's not the one doing it. Whatever he does, he does do man. That shows you that God relies on man. He puts faith in man. Hallelujah. Realizing man. He puts faith in man. As we have faith in God, he has faith in us. Hallelujah. And his loyal to his man. He is very loyal. Very loyal. So we find Jesus sends out the 12 in Mark 16 and the church and he says, invest 18. You will lay hands on the Seek. You will lay hands on the Seek. You will lay hands. He gives a direct instruction. He says, you will lay hands. And he calls, laying all of hands assigned a supernatural sign. I didn't think that was supernatural. I feel just being taught in the know, it's this sign shall follow them that believe. They shall lay hands on the Seek. And that laying all of hands, he says, it's supernatural. And the Seek shall recover. All right. Now just to shut the 48, quickly go there. Laying all of hands is a supernatural ministry. It's a supernatural activity. Genesis 48 where see Jacob wants to bless the children of Joseph. Manasi and Ephraim. And then Ephraim is the younger. Manasi is the elder, elder one, the first born. But Joseph knows that God doesn't necessarily follow that pattern from his dad Isaac to himself, even to his son Joseph. Oftentimes we all do this. Our products of God's grace. But we deny others to be the same. His father knew was neither worshipping the God called. And the pattern is very clear. Abel, not Kane, that's the Bible pattern. And we saw it again. There were, listen to this now, the man that God called wasn't Noah. But when God called Noah, metwistela was alive. Lamak was alive. Metwistela, you were alive. The age was on the side. Lamak knew what Noah was. So he gave him a name after what God was going to do. But that's what God is going to use. God called Isaac, not Israel. He called Jacob, not Israel, Joseph, not Ruben. Or somehow Joseph forgot the pattern. Well, let's see what God had done. He wanted his father son. He wanted humanity. And then he blessed Joseph and said, God was 15. Before I was my father's Abraham and Isaac did work. God, which fed me all my life, lifelong, going to this day, the angel that we did. More evil blessed the lives and let my name be named on them and name of my father's Abraham and Isaac let them go into the midst of the earth. And when Joseph saw the father, ladies right hand upon the head of Abraham. He displeased him. So, lay in and of hand there is supernatural. Joseph knew it. Definitely, without much information, the appearance does exactly what Abraham did to Isaac and Isaac to Jacob. By lay in and of hand, you found them function in God's office in the earth. An ordination of a sought. I will take much of the other issues in the seconds in the third service. So, lay in and of hand is a supernatural thing. That is God and coming upon me. That's God's work coming upon me. And so, we must view it that way. You know, today we are in a very funny world where everything goes on the social media and people have the tendency of mocking it. To mock. And to laugh. And there are people today that don't know the importance of the things they laughed at. Years ago, from 26 years ago, I think I I also didn't like what I saw in certain complications. People were laying hands and, you know, they're doing stuff. First of lay in hand, general. I'll just teach you and minister. And then God asked me what they, God asked me to stop laying hands. Why? I said, well, it also liked their abuse. I just abused it. It's like, I can only hand on people to be billionaires. I can only hand. And I was really, I give myself to say, but laying on the hands is in my word. Say, yeah. So, if you're not laying hands, you are disobeying my word by being angry at them. You do the word. Are you finding the world where people laugh, they laugh, they fall under the power of God? And they say, have a resistance. And somebody was saying, they say, yeah, I discovered that when they had laid hands on the people, people have a camera man, don't fall. Anyway, laughing. And I saw one Christian who was there and I inboxed, I knew him. So you hate this grace. You shouldn't do that. You see, if you join them in mocking us, secret things, you sign out in receiving the blessing of that secret activity. Don't join it. Don't even be, don't even be forced to. It's, it's not funny. It is stupid statements. And the drugs, the kind of drugs you laugh at reveals the kind of things on your heart. And I said, no, a supernatural thing when people fall another power, we saw it in the Bible. So long, Tassos, we saw the Lord Jesus Christ. Hallelujah. So in your Old Testament, the glory of God, feel for who temple, we saw that in the Old Testament books. And that's what is happening to them. And you know, when it comes to the ministry, because we are all human, I have things today that have grown up better than I was years ago, made because God's word and and God's things are done by men who can be growing in it. Let me make errors here and there but keep your eyes on the ball. Are you following what I'm saying? Keep your eyes on the ball. It's still God working. God working through people's imperfection. It's still God working. Hallelujah. You learn something? You learn something? You learn something? I'll take more of that in the third service. They're not of hands. It's supernatural. No, she don't choke. It is supernatural thing. That's why Joseph was angry. He knew something was happening. He was brighter ever before. Hallelujah. Some you'll feel it's blest. Told him that I can mark him. Significi