will be flooded with light, will


be able to walk in your word. In the


name of Jesus, we declare that in this


service, the things that ought to be


said will be said. The things that ought


to be done will be done to the praise


and glory of your name. We declare that


we shall be edified, built up,


transformed by the power of your word.


And our faiths are released. And we know


that our needs are met by the operation


of the power gift gives in our midst


this morning. Open to all transes and


revelation by your spirit in the name of


Jesus.


>> Amen. God bless you. Have your seats.


Isaiah chapter 55 and we will begin from


that particular text of scripture.


Isaiah chapter 55.


Isaiah chapter 55 and verse 8.


Isaiah 55.


two major paragraphs in Isaiah 55 1-5


and 6 to 13. So for the sake of uh for


the sake of situational context, we'll


start from verse six uh


seek ye the Lord while he may be found.


Call ye upon him while he's near. Verse


seven, let the wicked forsake his way


and the unrighteous man his thought.


That's the introduction of where we see


taught. the wicked man his thoughts and


let him return unto the Lord and he will


have mercy on him and to our God for he


will abundantly


pardon


he will abundantly


pardon.


Then he says in verse eight, for my


thoughts,


remember he had used the word in verse


seven, let the wicked forsake his way


and the unrighteous man he thought. The


unrighteous man he thought.


Verse 18 now says, "For my thoughts are


not your thoughts, neither are your ways


my ways, say the Lord." So which man


would this be? This obviously won't be


the believer, the man that God says


should turn from his thoughts, his


wicked ways unto God's way. So, and that


is the intro. It says, "For as the


heavens are higher than the earth, so


are my ways higher than your ways, and


my thoughts than your thoughts. For as


the rain cometh down, and the snow from


heaven, and returneth not tether, but


waterth the earth, and maketh it bring


forth and b, that it may give seed to


the swer, bread to the eater, so shall


my word be, that goeth forth out of my


mouth. It shall not return unto me void,


but it shall accomplish that which I


please, and it shall prosper in the


thing where unto I send it. For you


shall go out with joy and be led forth


with peace. The mountains and the hills


shall break forth before you into


singing. And all the trees of the field


shall clap their hands. Instead of the


thorn shall come up the f tree, and


instead of the bride shall come up the


mighty tree, and it shall be to the Lord


for a name, for an everlasting sign


that shall not be cut off. Now see the


emphasis.


First paragraph 1 to 5 was an invitation


to life. How we ought to live life


according to God's terms. If we are


testy will come. It's not uh our


performance. It's not what we have but


it's about the grace and the mercy of


God so we can buy without money.


Speaking about how God intends life to


be. Then he talks about how we ought to


live. Seek


the Lord. So in my


step to reconciliation to be God's man


to live the life of God he now says we


have to drop our thoughts for his


thoughts. So this speaks about what we


call conversion repentance repent which


is to change your mind change your


mindset change how you think repent and


be saved. So the believer first and


foremost is one who has taken God's


perspective for life. The believer is


someone who has taken God's perspective


for life. How? Because you heard the


gospel. You acknowledge I'm talking


about hearing the gospel as a sinner.


You acknowledge that oh I cannot save


myself. I cannot help myself. I am


finished in my own condition living


without God's help and God's power. You


needed a savior. That is already


dropping your thoughts and dropping your


ways. That is biblical repentance. It's


not about crying. The goodness of God is


what leads men to repentance, not the


threatening, not threatening people.


Amen. So you repented. You changed your


mind. Which John doesn't use that word


repent in the four gospel. Matthew,


Mark, and Luke consistently use the word


repent. Repent. For the references in


Matthew, Mark and Luke that have repent,


John says believe. That same reference


is John just says believe. So to repent


is to believe. The act of faith where a


man turns from the vanities onto the


living God, where it turns from


idolatry, turns from the sin and unseen


forces we hand power to


and say now God will be the controller


of my life. I will serve the Lord. I


would worship him only. He is my God. I


will live for the Lord. I want to be


God's man. I want to be welcomed into


God's plan for all the earth. I want to


be the blessed of the Lord.


I obey the gospel. I believe in Jesus.


Whatsoever is the construct you


understand in the simple form the gospel


was preached to you. I accept Jesus as


my Lord. Amen. That point is where a man


apprehend God's thought and God's ways.


Amen. The starting point from that


moment you are a man


of God, a man from God, a man of God


because you have become the man that God


uses. So from that moment you need to be


vast in what you have come into. So


after salvation is spiritual growth. God


would have all men to be saved and to


come to the knowledge of the truth. So


after salvation is the knowledge of the


truth. So God wants us to be saved and


to come to knowledge of the truth. So


there is salvation and there is coming


to the knowledge of the truth. Amen.


Which is spiritual growth. The essence


of ministry gives Ephesians chapter 4.


It says he gives some to be apostles,


some prophets, some evangelists, some


pastors and teachers as stated in 11 for


the perfecting of the saints. For the


perfecting of the saint, which is the


word equipping catismos in the Greek,


complete furnishing.


For the complete furnishing of the


saints, nothing missing, nothing


lacking. And the ministry gives supplies


whatsoever is missing and lacking.


That's why God gave gifts to men in men


for the perfecting of the saints. For


the work of the ministry. So again, if


you take the 444 for the perfect of the


saint, the saints perfected do the work


of the ministry because the pastor's


work of the ministry is to bet ministry


in you. Amen. Just like a business


school bet


you you should a business school should


produce business owners.


The medical school should produce


medical experts. Abby, every of the


uh the


lawyer school that they every of the


profession that has uh a specialized


training to now say okay you are this is


to produce it is to produce that very


thing. Ministry is what is producing the


believer. So you cannot say, "Oh, God


called me as a pastor to make people


rich." That's a very noble thing, but


it's not a calling from God. Amen. You


don't need a church for that thing. Very


good stuff. It's good that you are


against poverty, that you do not like


poverty.


However, that's not a calling in


ministry. You don't need to know Jesus


to have that. Every call of a pastor


must involve equipping people to be


God's man which is the use of the word


ministry that Christian vocation


identity and vocation. So the work of


every pastor is to help believers in


that vocational life in how we image God


how we represent God in the world. How


we shine as lights in the world. Amen.


And that would involve growing and


walking in God's word.


Amen. So nothing like that. Some say oh


God called me so that it will be heaven


at last. No such commissioning in the


scriptures. Of course every man is


influenced by that doctrinal persuasion.


So in order for us not to tear such uh


sacred commissions that those ministers


of God have though uh much of it is is


is is deep in error and babyhood because


as long as people are not exposed to


sound doctrine they will never mature


and grow. They will have experience in


the Lord that they are old in the Lord


but they have not grown in the Lord. So


there will be because outside sound


doctrine there's really no firm


maturity. There is always instability


and inconsistency that you will see much


difference between the character of God


and the character that is being formed


within the person because outside sound


doctrine a man can never really know who


God is. The essence of sound doctrine is


not so that your prayers are answered.


It's not so that God can talk to you. It


is for accuracy of living, precision of


worship so that you can worship God


properly. They worship me in vain,


teaching for traditions the commandments


of men. Matthew 15 verse 7. So how what


you believe would affect your worship


life. Amen. What you believe is surely


going to affect your uh verse 9


precisely. For in vain they do worship


me. Teaching for doctrine is the


commandment of men. So how they worship


God. The doctrine you believe. The


doctrine you believe. The doctrine you


believe is very core for uh in fact an


emphasis in the pastorial episodes.


First Timothy 2 Timothy and Titus. The


pastoral episodes you see that he


constantly spoke of sound doctrine


helping


proper godliness. Amen. So it's for


accuracy of living and accuracy of


worship. So where you um a true life


story a pastor


um in Italy of course it been


repatriated now some years back the


story trended a bit and he woke up one


morning and his god spoke to him and


said that woman and that child dagger


them and he killed his wife and his


child. Of course the they repatrated


him, deported him, banned him from life


from entry and in when they as he landed


in the airport they took him straight to


the psych ward obviously to psychiatric


hospital and a pastor was preaching to


him try to get him born again and he


said and he defended his right to the


voice of God that he heard and the


pastor said to him that God's word


judges every voice we hear but he was


really convinced because the voice


mimics scripture for him and said


therein I will know you love me for I


told Abraham sacrifice your son so


sacrifice what is dear to you and we


have such lunatics in society today that


is the reason for sound doctrine so that


is not any voice that people who are


told debase yourself deface yourself


don't ever look pretty don't ever look


beautiful don't ever look nice because


how will you show the Lord God that you


have repented from sin


and they buy into all such foolishness.


Very easy to tell that that is not God.


Very easy to tell God's voice is leading


you against


God's word.


That is what we're talking about. We


must establish sound doctrine. You see


the Lord said to me that people who do


not pay tithe


now another person said is so innocently


because they defer to him and he just


said if you don't pay your tithe you


will not go to heaven he didn't put God


another person because that person has


that beloved man of God as his or has


interpreted and brought God that God


should not be worshiped you and your God


are confused we don't need to buy into


that cheap trick you try to use God to


bully us and say no no no we have God's


word enough to know what God is saying


the word of God became flesh God


manifest in flesh and is stuck with it


is written you cannot fool me or deceive


me all the temptations of Satan gave


Jesus Jesus answered with God's word


>> every time they asked Jesus a question


the scribes the Pharisees the Sadducees


did you never read in the scriptures how


did you reads in the scriptures. He will


always use scriptures to answer them.


You cannot tell me to forget God's word.


The same thing with the error. Of


course, it has been a bit corrected now


by those not apostles. They used to say,


"Don't let the written word limit you.


There are experiences beyond the word. I


don't want it any experience beyond the


word so that I can be telling angels to


help me wash plates.


Insanity.


I don't want such experiences. I I've


allowed the written word limit me. If


there's anything like that, the the the


written word should be the standard.


Whatsoever is beyond God's word. I


cannot call it wisdom for life. So the


origin of the word Torah, T O R A H, the


word used to explain the law of God,


which has nothing to do with legalism.


The law of God, the word of God. Genesis


26, Abraham obeyed my voice, my law, my


charge, my convert, my commandment had


nothing to do with that. There was no


Sinai in Genesis 26 when he saying


Abraham obeyed my voice. There was no


Sinai there. Sinai Moses was not even


born and he used the word laws,


commandments. So we mustn't have and all


the same what Moses gave them in in


Sinai was not legalism either. The point


We are saying is this once you have this


idea


against God's word


that God's word is trying to limit me.


God's word is trying to stop me from


being the best I can be. God's word. So


people try to do that with God's word.


God's word is the reason why I'm poor.


God's word is the reason God's word or


God's work.


Did you get it? Then


we ask, "Have you even spoken to the


God?


Have you read the scriptures?" Because


of course, riches of poverty will not


determine who God uses. Because the


gospel


is ex is is is inclusive of the rich and


the poor, male and female, born nor


free,


abi, Jew and Gentile. So everybody comes


in as one new man in the sight of God.


So any gospel that says you can't be


used of God because you are rich or you


can't be used of God because you are


poor because most people also know that


one exists because people have mastered


in life to defend poverty. God is not


defending poverty. God is simply saying


he can use everybody because not


everybody wants to work hard to be rich.


Not everybody even have the sense or the


knowhow to be rich. And if you try to


help them, teach them how to fish, you


simply get a bad name that I beg you


want me. But so people prefer welfare


package. It says uh help me with 10K


there. Help me with 15K there. Help me


with 20K there. Then if you dare, do not


give them the 15K. Ah but that money is


not big now but you don't have it. It's


not big but you don't have it.


Entitlement.


So you try to okay let me help you set


up this. They won't even put all their


life and energy into it to see that that


business grows or that venture works.


No, they have this great uncle and great


brother and sister and in-law and


grandfather


that they want to use work to kill or


use by work I mean bill to kill.


So there are provisions within God's


word. God used a poor man. God used a


rich man. God used a male. God used a


female. God used Jew. God used Gentile.


Every man is inclusive. Why? Because


God's plan Genesis 1:26


male and female. Every human being


can picture every human being is


welcomed, has been blessed, welcomed


into God's plan to be fruitful,


multiply. So every believer, every human


being that


accepts eternal life, that accepts the


Holy Spirit can and will be used of God


regardless of their financial status,


regardless of their intellectual status.


God will use an illiterate as much as he


will use illiterate. But we should not


now be found trying to defend illiteracy


because God can use an illiterate say


nothing wrong to be an illiterate and I


see that among many cycles of trying to


defend of course we should be careful of


mmon from in our sermon. We should be


careful of of multi- realism.


We should be careful to try to monetize


everything in the scriptures which is


very wrong and ungodly which the


prosperity message and all of such


proponents have led to great extreme.


I've said it over the years that when


Paul writing to Timothy said the love of


money is the root of all evil. He was


writing to a pastor so that the pastor


is educated properly to know that this


is how people pierce theel with many


sorrows. So if you enter into ministry


to make money, you're going to obviously


be broke. You're going to pierce


yourself with many sorrow. You will


become what those charlatans are. Dip


your hand in your pocket, bring an


offering and come and kiss the altar of


God


with it. Uh uh first uh uh what do they


call it? First fruit uh redemption


offering. I think that's it. Redeem. If


you are a firstborn, come and redeem


yourself from family pattern and family


lineage.


Then um


all the different come and sew your


Isaac to the Lord.


That's Abraham. Now Abraham dropped his


Isaac. And we get that is and again


that's the challenge because of such


people. People do not see that God can


lead you to give. There is


blessing and a benefit for giving. Such


there is such a bless and a benefit for


giving that God God in his reward system


consistently uses giving as an example


of how the judgment day will look like.


So giving is such a noble thing that we


should not forever throw shades against


and say oh to hell we give it because


where did you see me hungry? Where did


you see me naked? In as much as you did


it he says no cup of cold water. So


there's all of those provisions that


shows that oh if you sow to the flesh


you are the flesh rec to the spirit of


the spirit you reap life everlasting


that there is a reward for these things


in life everlasting but in the natural


the blessedness that comes from the man


of God's prayer that just like Paul says


to the church of uh Philippi my God


shall supply all your needs according to


his riches in glory because you have


taken care of me my god does this for


you the prayer of the man of god which


is uh the speakings of faith and


miracles,


works great things in people's life


because he's a human being for God's


sake. You have touched his emotions and


you have triggered him. Every man


blesses from a depth within them. And


because he's touched the word, the power


of God will work. But is it only those


who give to you also pray for sincerely


like that? Then that's not a genuine man


of God. A genuine man of God prays for


everybody whether they give to him or


not. However, he will not take lightly


people who have helped him to pastor


without tears and pain because uh if we


have given you spiritual things he say


Paul says they bing for you reap your


cannot people like that are helping the


pastor that in quotes uh leaves only on


the things of God live only on the


ministry doesn't have any secular


engagement which is why Paul begged that


said okay let the pastor have something


secular he does so that he doesn't look


like


die if not help me I'm finished because


there we have seen congregations who


don't care in fact it used to be a


statement of Lord bring them to us we'll


keep them poor and humble for you ha


much have changed in Christianity that


used to be slogans churches that had


personage that's how they wanted their


pastors to be so when we see Puritans


today try and cry and and try to make


just of pastors with private jets always


turn away from all such foolishness.


There's nothing wrong in a pastor using


a private jet. A pastor using a private


jet does not mean that he has is is he


he he stole money or something is wrong.


Just say you are jealous because many


times this is where all those


unnecessary puritans coming.


Not fair. It's not fair. It's not fair.


What about when people are broke? Is


that also fair? Leave people to have


what they have and stop uh unnecessary


uh comparisons that do not edify that do


not edify. You can say what you want to


say. Sometimes I call it cowardice. You


know the preachers that have perfect jet


in Nigeria just call their names and


don't be don't be a coward in the name


of purity. I mean purity holiness. God


is sacred and is not timid. He's bold.


You are old enough to call names. So


just call the names directly.


Call the names directly. I have a


problem with Bishop. I feel like he's


destroyed Nigeria. I have a problem with


I feel like he has destroyed this


country. I have a problem most


especially with Chris.


You see it now. Have a problem. Yeah,


you are old enough. Nobody's going to be


angry with you. You have the name and


the stature and the rank to correct and


speak. But they come they be like say


you get problem with private jet. It's


unnecessary sir. Poverty is not a good


thing. Nobody should nobody should be an


apologist for poverty. I'm trying to


help you here.


>> Because if not that's what they will tag


us. Oh we hy sound doctrine. We


encourage people to be poor. We have


never encouraged anybody to be poor.


However God's choice of a man has to do


with whether the man has money. Now


those other guys who now pervert the


gospel now tell you that if you don't


have money you are not serving my God.


My God maketh rich


and start quoting text that was not


following.


Amen.


>> There are so many persons in the Bible


God used that were poor. In fact the


example Jesus used showed us that one


man was rich which other one was poor.


And the one that was rich does not know


Jesus. The one that was poor knows Jesus


and he is in heaven with the Lord.


The rich man Lazarus. You know the story


that Jesus told you. So Lazarus was a


believer. So God's choice of a man. This


is normal thinking. That's why the Bible


examples are


God leans more to the poor. So that


because everybody normally should know


that the rich is more preferred. So God


leaning to the poor should show you that


God's choice is not the way man's choice


work. But we now took it to say God is


for poverty. Ah Jesus in his own


testimony said the poor you have with


you always.


Because there are actions that


perpetuate poverty. There are actions


that leads to poverty in perpetuity


forever. that there are actions,


mindsets, environments, cycles of


influence you come into that we know, we


can already tell you in a simple


prophetic declaration that s you shall


remain poor. This that you have begun to


do.


There shall be no riches in your life.


Say nobody can simple prediction simple


what they call spoiler


give you the spoiler that I know you


shall be poser. So nobody should defend


poverty. At the same time, nobody should


defend riches and put down the poor man


and say the poor man cannot be used of


God. Amen. So the church, we've said


this over the years, is a classless


society where the rich and the poor


meet. What differentiates us in the


house of God and in the family of God is


not our wealth.


And that is how good societies ought to


function. That the poor man has a voice.


And he's not he doesn't have a voice


because he has money. He has a voice


because he's a citizen. Every Christian


is equal in the sight of God. What


differentiate believers from believers


within the local church and in the


family of God is maturity.


Maturity and service differentiates us.


Those who grow spiritually maturity and


their service. He who wants to be great,


let him be your servant. those who serve


in the local church. So it's not do you


know how rich I am that's why I can't be


in the ory department. What are you


trying to say that for poor people and


these are the things that sound doctrine


correct because why will a Christian


have that kind of mindset is a um is a


find a unit to join find an activity you


need to join in your local church. Let


this be a way you contribute in your


service to the Lord. Is um


um


u can't we just pay people to do all of


these things because money is talking


here?


Ababola,


you dip your hands into your All right.


Uh uh pastor sir, this is a a check of 5


million. Let's just clear all of those


step. get rid of all those technical


guys and


they kind of like don't know what


they're doing there by the way just I'm


not talking about you guys who


clear all those protocol guys clear the


sanitation people they just don't know


what they are doing because I can give


you spotless and I will just foot that


every month it's just 5 million foot


that until one service day the pastor


says you see um we shouldn't have idols


in our hearts just uh and he he preached


wonderfully and he finish yeah want to


see the pastor you know pastor that


message today really touched me I felt


you were using me as an example and


because of that I'm withdrawing my


support from this great assembly


what shall you do


5 million have gone. You have to go back


and beg them and say guys, you know,


I've always believed in you guys.


It is voluntary service. Oh, it's


voluntary service unto the Lord. And


that's why the argument came. Oh, should


we pay this? Should we not pay this? It


doesn't come with people that are okay.


It's churches that are not okay and the


pastor are okay that they have the kind


of argument. Should we be paying people


in church?


There is no such debate no not in the


churches of our lord Jesus Christ that


that uphold sound doctrine question is


should we pay should we not pay is any


the question first is the pastor himself


even be paid that the key bodies want to


be paid we celebrate you our key bodies


our pastor what is payment we don't pay


because it's not of full time you you


are not always in church Monday


to Sunday and it's not every hour of the


day.


So get a job.


You because it's a voluntary service


unto God. This is how you serve the


Lord. It's different from when you are a


technician, we bring you to come and do


a work. We cannot say our brother,


your brother in the Lord. Our brother in


the Lord will not buy the speaker. Our


brother in the Lord, our brother-in-law


said speaker, buy it. He's not our


brother in the Lord. I used to buy it


from China.


Are you following you? Buy the things


that are needed and all of that. And you


shouldn't expecting you to do it free.


He should be paid for his workmanship.


Now that's wickedness. The best he can


do for you is maybe reduce it, give you


a discount. But to expect that you


should just do it for free. Ah pastor a


thief.


And that's how people some pastors


that's why some people never want to


give pastors their house to rent. The


pastor he never he never move into my


house. We are still talking about house


r you sir. Ah go parent. So I said uh


drop down m the blessings of the lord


stay up use that blessing to be paying


me. Oh keep that blessing or let it make


sure the money is coming and you see all


of those stories that have been told


about oh I gave my house to a pastor I


gave my house to a and not pay. He kept


owing me for three years and praying for


me praying for me every time. Now prayer


person go in fact I arresting say don't


touch the anointed when anointed were


touching me what did you do


which is again wronging touch not my


anointed how does that to do with


touching the anointed what is touching


the anointed there


he said any man who suffer let him


suffer for the righteous case let not


suffer for being a murderer or a thief


so if you suffer Peter If you suffer for


that, you suffer for a just cause, they


should lock you up. It's a just cause.


It's not ministry. That's not


persecution. That's you being a thief.


>> Amen.


>> Sorry about that if he's paying you.


So doctrine matters a lot. Hallelujah.


>> And in doctrine is where we get God's


thoughts. So it says


in the book of Acts um let's do Psalms


before we do Psalm 103:7.


He made known his ways unto Moses. His


acts unto the children of Israel. He


made known his ways unto Moses and his


act onto the children of Israel.


The ways and the act of God are with the


man that knows the way of God. Amen.


He made known his ways unto Moses and


his acts unto the children of Israel.


Romans chapter 12 again uh


verse two. And be not conformed to this


world, but be transformed. So we're


talking about a biblical perspective of


life.


Be not conformed to this word but be


transformed by the renewing of your mind


that you may prove what is that good


acceptable and perfect will of God. So


it says be not conformed to this word.


The word conformed is the Greek word suk


matiso to be fashion shape take the


mold. The same way you mold a cup. The


same way chairs are mold everything


takes the shape of the mold. production


engineering


the way everything is made it takes the


mold.


Now it says do not let the don't be


squeezed into the mold of the word


but instead be transformed


changed by the renewing of your mind.


That's that word renewing of your mind.


Renewing of your mind. So the believer


ought to renew his mind.


Hallelujah.


Amen. The believer ought to renew his


mind. Renew his mind.


Renew his mind.


That's Christian growth. That's how we


pick biblical perspective for life.


That's how we ought to think and see


things.


So a biblical perspective. So when we


talk about a perspective


is your ways when we talk about a


perspective is a perceptual framework


that everybody have. Your ways of


seeing.


Your ways of seeing. How you see things,


how you see life, how you see people,


how you see everything.


It includes your philosophies, your


ideologies, your theologies.


It is also your world view. Your view of


the world. Your perspective of life is


also your world view. W O R O L D V I E


W.


And a biblical perspective is not a


moral system. Let's start with that. A


biblical perspective is not a moral


system. Some people uh try to identify a


biblical perspective with moral


behavior. Of course, certainly certainly


someone who holds on to biblical


perspective ought to behave differently


from someone who does not.


So let's say that first so that what


Paul said they slanderously report that


we say let us do evil that good may


come. No. So at least we have started


with that one. You know that we all have


we are thinking properly. So a believer


ought to behave differently from one who


does not uphold biblical perspective. Is


that okay?


But traditionally the use of the word


morality must always be seen as not a


Christian construct because a man can be


moral without the Lord. But a man cannot


be righteous without the Lord. A man


cannot


be used of God without salvation. So


when we say salvation is not morality,


we do not mean that salvation is bad


behavior either. But the issue is that


people have people can't be moral


without the Lord Jesus. Morality is seen


in every form of worship, every faith,


every religion have what they call


morality.


So it has to be beyond that. So we say


salvation has been moralized. Salvation


is bigger than that. It's more than just


a change of behavior. You are my son,


you are my son. You are my daughter. You


are my daughter. Obviously behavior is


important but for not not for the wrong


reason and not for the wrong


purpose.


So a biblical perspective is not just a


moral system.


So when we talk about biblical


perspective the very first thing some


people think is that oh we're talking


about moral behavior. All right. No, no,


no. A biblical perspective. Of course,


like we said again, the quick


disclaimer, a believer ought to behave


differently from a non-believer or


somebody who does not hold a biblical


perspective or philosophy or worldview


for life. Abby. Yes, sir.


>> Okay. So,


but morality alone can never be a


biblical perspective


because several errors will come from


that.


And we explained the use of the word


perfect. I think I did that here. So you


say be perfect. Perfect in the Bible is


used to explain maturity. Perfect is


used to explain uh what Christ has done


for us. Hebrews chapter 8, Hebrews


chapter 10 and 14. The word perfected.


He had perfected them forever that are


sanctified. The word perfect is also


used to explain conduct and that is the


Matthew chapter 4. Let's read that. When


it says be perfect, now this is not


morality. I want to repeat it again.


will always keep separating it because


morality


can be produced without the life of


Christ, without the Holy Spirit, without


God in your life. And what is produced


without God in your life does not


glorify God.


Matthew 5:48 when he says, "Be ye


perfect


even as your father which is in heaven


is perfect." The word perfect there is


the word used


to explain completeness, maturity.


So behave, this is a behavior text


obviously be therefore perfect even as


your heavenly father is perfect. What is


the context? It talks about


verse 43. Ye that ye have heard that it


has been said, thou shalt love thy


neighbors and hate thy enemies.


But I say unto you now you have heard


that it has been said, thou shalt love


thy neighbor and hate thy enemy. That is


how some people interpreted the law of


Moses because the law of Moses also say


love your


neighbors. So the law of Moses I've told


you over the years it's subject to


interpretation just like uh lawyers


Facebook lawyers and Twitter lawyers


know how to defend and explain case


and people who should know better


learned colleague


s that should know better is learning


from Facebook and


YouTube keypad warriors what they have


to say the same way uh Uh uh Abuja is


the reason why somebody wins an


election. Abuja is how somebody win an


election. I see how in the law court


your


great lawyers were all silenced because


and the judge said and when I read the


report from the the judge said and all


of them said yes my lord. Then afterward


they came out and said we not agree or


we not agree. cowards


on suits eating the man's money because


the judge said


if we are going to make FCT so powerful


that if a man has not won if a if a


person wins many states and do not win


FCT that means we are making FCT a


greater state than every other state


that means and FCT is not even a state


now what did the founding fathers


say what did the writers of that


provision of the constitution say and he


used the word situational context of


them say yes my lord then they came


outside and started argued again we not


go agree oh we not go agree


people know what ultimately who want to


be wise know who to learn from


ultimately ultimately people that want


to know school go to school and no book


know what to learn not cheap uh black


male Because people are very emotive. So


if you just appeal to their emotion, oh


they triggered, they excited. But


doesn't mean that they are ready for


proper intellectual framework of


thinking


because this is the reason why people


are trained. This is why people learn.


Every lawyer knows that that you can


state the provision in Nigerian


constitution as a 1999 he


is have an omnibus applic


[Music]


I I've read constitution. I just as


I just get to the court, I just read it


as those of you that are involved in


litigation. You just go to the court


session. This obsession is not is the


judge going to say where did you do your


own law school? Get out of my court. You


have to defend the case. So that is


interpretations. You have an


interpretation.


So it's interpret. Then you now look at


a law and not know that it's


interpreted. So the interpreters of the


law in that second temple period, the


scribes, the Pharisees and the Sadducees


had a very devilish interpretation of


the law of Moses which Jesus and Paul


corrected. And that's the reason why it


look like they hate the law. Nothing is


wrong with the law. The law is wise. The


law makes a man. The law uh is the


doctrine that everybody have. In fact,


all that Paul taught, he taught from


that Genesis to Malachi. Nothing is


wrong with those portions. is just the


interpretation that had been given in


that second temple period, that


intertestamental period, the 400 years


gap between Malachi and Matthew. the


rise of Alexander the Great and the rise


of Roman Empire, the Greco Roman world.


That in between is where the challenge


came from and certain theories of the


students that were mentored by Ezra


and Nehemiah and Zerubabed the governor.


After their timeline, we had the rise of


the scribes. Then the set of the


Pharisees who believe in the


resurrection, then the set of the


Sadducees. And they were interpreters


within those cycles. Two most prominent


of such men, Shamay and Hel. And both of


them held views that if a man is not


circumcised, he cannot be saved.


Which is the argument in Acts 15 that


some men have come and said if they are


not circumcised, they are not saved. And


it says the same way they trouble you


and put a yoke upon you. So it's


interpretation. The same way in Matthew


19 they came to Jesus tempting him and


saying


is it lawful for a man to put away his


wife? Notice their issues always the


law. Is it lawful for a man to put away


his wife? Then Jesus answered them with


the same law the same law of Moses. The


same Genesis to uh Deuteronomy. The same


first Bible Jesus used to answer them.


They now said, "But Moses commanded us


to write a writing of divorcement for


them." I'm in Matthew 19 for those who


are not familiar with scriptures. Amen.


So you can read it.


And Jesus said Moses because see again


went back to the same Moses. Notice he's


not leaving the argument. So he's


showing them is how you are reading.


Moses wrote you that law because of the


hardness of your heart. So you go to


Leviticus, Numbers, the those boring


books that you say is boring but has


doctrine but it's not boring because


you see why Moses said what he said.


So uh s we not go we not go because I


cannot take it anymore. I cannot take it


anymore. I cannot take it anymore. I


cannot take it anymore. I don't want


people to be laughing at me in society.


S there needs to be a law that says a


man should a man can leave his wife. I


don't want I don't want I cannot take it


anymore. I cannot take it anymore. Say


Moses wrote you that law. The Greek word


is one scero kadia. He wrote in response


of your heart. It was your heart. Moses


simply gave you what you wanted. H how


can that be God's law? God already


accommodates human frailty. He does not


endorse it but he accommodates it. So


Moses in writing and interpreting the


law of God accommodated human frailty.


That's what Jesus was simply saying that


now put away wife put away a wife. Leave


Moses alone.


Simple interpretation. The same way they


Moses commanded that they should stone


such. Which one did Moses stone? None.


Except you have never read Genesis to


the thronomy. Nobody was stoned by Moses


for breaking any of those things. As


people try to interpret again an


interpretation issue. So Jesus said,


"Oh, which of you without sin?" So in


other words,


which of you is without sin? Throw the


first stone. No, Jesus did not say they


cannot throw stone


just be without sin. So that means if


they were being sincere. So what was


Jesus favorite word for those wrong


interpreters of the law? Hypocrite.


Hypo have washed Christ out of their


life.


Hypocrite. Hypocrite. Hypocrite.


Hypocrite. Hypocrite. Then he says in


Matthew, you sit at Moses's seat. You


become, you have become interpreters of


Moses for Moses. You will not let other


people enter and you yourself will not


enter. Blind leaders leading the blind.


You love salutations and greeting. You


take widows captive


for a pretense horrible people


and they interpreters of the law. No.


And that time they as us which was the


end of the argument. M 22 Jesus now said


how is it David's son? If David in the


spirit called him Lord how is he David's


son? The Bible say and no man does ask


him a question after that day. What was


the issue? Taking them back to how it is


written.


So it's how do you read it? Have you not


read? How the word have you not read is


how did you read it?


Every man years according to the state


of his heart. So it shows you the


hardness of their hearts affected how


they heard the law of God communicated


by Moses.


The hardness of their heart affected how


they heard what they heard.


This is the reason why we avoid the law


versus grace debacle conundrum that


people like


[Music]


I preach Bible


because where did Paul teach the grace


of God from Genesis to Malachi. So how


can he not be there? Some people have I


have said this for so many years. Jesus


did not die to God to get God born


again. Some people's theology have Jesus


making God a good guy. Now Jesus came


into the world so that God can turn a


new leaf and say God is over for you.


Time up. You better behave yourself.


I've shed my blood. Now I've washed you


clean. Behave properly now. Become uh


gentler. Become more merciful and


forgiving. Which Bible is that one?


Jesus's death is not for God. It's for


you. It's to make you a new person.


Amen. It's not. Some people have even


taken John that you know from from


primary school without Jesus Christ. So


you know it's from primary school


Christian school.


Amen. For God so hated the world.


For God so loved the world that he did


what?


>> So that he gave his only begotten son


that whosoever believeth in him should


not perish but have life everlasting.


God so loved the world that he gave his


son. The way people read John 15, God so


hated the world in the angry Bible


translation. God was so angry with the


world that he sent his son to bear his


his anger. He wasted his anger on him on


the cross. This is when you are doing


grace versus law. You want to be a grace


preacher, you have to wear white canvas


and jeans and put hand in your pocket.


You know your long jeans cry. That's not


what we are doing here. It's not it's


not a movement.


Proper Bible interpretation is not a


movement. Proper Bible interpretation is


how every believer should handle the


word of God.


>> Amen.


>> The introduction of God to Moses. Exodus


33, God said to him, "The Lord I will


come and you will see me. The Lord the


Lord God gracious and merciful."


First


first sentence in the articles of


introduction, God introduced himself to


Moses as the Lord the Lord God Yahweh


Yahweh


the Lord gracious


and merciful. God is gracious. It's not


Jesus that made God gracious. The word


gracious and merciful is used for God


319 times. Genesis to Malachi. Jesus


have not become flesh. You know what we


mean?


The word had not become flesh. Ah ah


gracious merciful


in the Psalms alone tender me abundant


in tender mercies forgiveness


don't have a god who is something else


because where did Paul said in in acts


26:22 he said I said none other things


than those things which Moses in the law


and the prophet say shall come


I said none other


Paul said he quoted only what is in the


law. In Acts 17:3 the Bible say opening


and alleging Paul verse two say reason


with them out of the scripture opening


and alleging that Christ must need


suffer these things


and to be raised again the opening and


alleging from the scripture that's where


Paul reason to them from


the scriptures.


Amen.


>> Amen. from the scripture acts 28 the


same thing the law of Moses the and the


prophets teaching persuaded them about


the kingdom of God that's what he he


taught from that's where Paul taught


from the law and the prophet


the righteousness of God without works


without this wrong interation of the law


is evident is made manifest by the law


and the prophet by the scriptures amen


Amen. So it's the same scriptures that


Paul used to defend his righteousness by


faith. The same scriptures when he was


explaining justification is the same


scripture. He was quoting Abraham in


Genesis. He's quoting the same


scriptures. So it is how you interpret


it. Amen.


It's how you interpret the Bible. And we


must uphold proper biblical


interpretation.


So we said a biblical worldview is more


than a moral system because a man can be


moral without the Lord. Principles and


points do this, don't do this. Avoid


this, avoid this. Don't go here, go here


is different from walking in the spirit.


Is different from walking in the light.


Walking in the spirit is the power


behind the believer's conduct.


Amen. Walking in the spirit. We are told


to walk in the spirit.


We are taught to walk in the spirit.


We are to walk in the spirit.


Hallelujah.


To walk in the spirit.


That's the Christian walk.


Walk in the spirit.


Walk in the spirit.


It's used a lot of times. Walk in the


light. Walk in the spirit.


And I gave you that text in Ephesians.


Let's look at Ephesians chapter 2 again.


Ephesians


Ephesians chapter 2


verse six. And has raised us up together


and made us together in the heavenly


place in Christ Jesus that in the ages


to come he might show the exceeding


riches of his grace and his kindness


towards us through Christ. For by grace


are ye saved through faith. And that not


of yourself it is the gift of God. Not


of works let any man should boast. For


we are his workmanship, created in


Christ unto good works, which God had


before ordained that we should walk in


them. So he he says, "Good works which


God had before ordained,


prepared beforehand, that we should walk


in them."


So is God just like Philippians 2:13, it


is God which workketh in you both to


will and to do of his good pleasure.


Every the same thing Moses said in 30,


God will sanctify your heart to love the


Lord. God will sanctify. God will help


you to is God that is helping me produce


what is right. is God that is helping me


not I'm using power and principles


working in this that's the difference


that's simply what so every time we


speak about morality we're not trying to


speak against behavior please have


behavior the issue is what is producing


it because for you as a Christian if you


feel like what produces your behavior is


what how many principles how many I know


and don't know no is the life of the


spirit the power of God spirit in you so


you know to do right and you know to do


wrong. So every Christian who does what


is wrong, it's simply a matter of


choice. Not because you do not know how


to walk in the light. You know, you


know, and if you want to overcome


temptation is the easiest thing is just


to lean on the power of God's spirit.


It's just to say, God, help me. And


you'll be helped. Hallelujah.


Just to lean on the power of God's


spirit.


That ye might walk worthy of the Lord


onto all pleasing. In Colossians 1:10,


being fruitful in every good work and


including knowledge of God. So we are


called like this. Are you following? But


it's not a moral system. We must


establish that that a biblical


perspective is not a moral system. A


biblical perspective. It's not a moral


system, but is actually Christ working


in and through you. So both looks like


they are the same but technically are


not the same because one can be powered


and produced without God working in you.


The other can only be produced by God


working in and through you which is


Christian living.


Amen.


God in me working in and through me.


Hallelujah.


or biblical perspective is not also a


political statement because now in


Nigeria


uh we use Nigeria I use America so you


get it for you to if you say I uphold


biblical perspective you cannot support


APC because a party of liars and thiefs


and you can only support Labor party


you have to be in the obedience movement


you cannot be a Christian that's why


they canceled many pars the other


the same thing. You cannot be a


Christian in America and not be for the


Republican. You cannot be a Democrat


because Democrats are for abortion are


for allah blah blah blah blah blah.


These things


alpha uh alphabet community


rainbow society


[Music]


because the democrat so once you say I


am a democrat say are you born again


then all the conspiracy


experts would do all their because um


anyone who is still supporting the


Democratic party doesn't know the Lord


Jesus. You know we evangelicals we


uphold the Republican party. What a


joke.


Amen.


>> So you can and those are emotives but


they will not know that is emotional.


You cannot be a Christian. You cannot be


a Christian. You cannot be a Christian.


I fought for that man. Where my brother


fire you to tell me I not to vote for


who I want to vote for. You don't have


that power to stop somebody from voting.


Even God allow people go to allow me go


to hell.


You are too evil and wicked to take away


another man's choice. And that's it.


That's you cannot tell me that every in


fact write it down. Any Christian that


in the next election that does not vote


for this party a dirty believer that's


not Bible perspective you holding on to


that's of should should we vote for


people who are ethically and morally


upright? Yes. What is your definition of


ethically and morally upright? Let's


leave that one. But if we are going to


weigh and scale who is better than who?


Beautiful. Who can walk beautiful? But


last last


say I choose to be mad allow my choice


of insanity that I want to vote for who


cannot work. You must know that because


even God protects your right to go to


hell. Your right to want to live without


him. Please be


use God and beg everybody allow people


their choice.


That is being a Christian. A Christian


in society is tolerant of other people's


view. No, I dagger you there now. I you


know let people their view. You don't


need to buy into it. You can explain and


defend yours. Somebody say if you


somebody said this properly. I I don't


know who said it but I've seen that


quote several times that if you always


have to turn an argument to insult


insult name calling you wearing raise


rights. That's true. Just defend what


you want to defend of


OG kill your mama there. You don't know


OG.


I got you there. That's the real OG.


Hey,


finish your mother.


Say the og


oini


you know o


you know you know it's


not I'm just you get the so people


cannot but use one of these falling


deities to swear for people you just see


they call banters on social media.


How can you say you are a Christian


and do not know


that Wazeri is our choice?


How can you say


Daniel what is your political party? He


brought out party that have witches,


sorcerers.


One of


Daniel's political


party baba which happened to be the king


was drinking with sacred cop that they


brought that from Jerusale before wrote


political party member. So that's how


much insanity and depravity those people


had. But it was in that party. Joseph


was not in a good party. He was in the


party. He was not in the party of the


Lord because there was no party of the


Lord


because that is the


party that will later put the children


of Israel in bondage.


You are not your Bible study is not


correct. Is that not a favor? Is that


not in the party succession party now?


It's not hand over the handover. There


arose a pharaoh that did not know


Joseph. It's not the only difference is


they don't know Joseph. It's not that


the same party but that one said we need


we need hard working people. This Egypt


this Israelite what are they doing here?


They gave them one land. Yeah recruit


all of them. So they recruited them like


that. Then


bondage


came


430 years. What was just a visitation


turned to a permanent residency and turn


to work force.


So sad that means you don't believe in


the right candidate. What is the right


candidate? What is the right candidate?


What is the right candidate? before you


cancel me.


What is the right candidate? What is the


right candidate? What is your definition


of right candidate?


They want to Islamize Nigeria. It's only


people that don't win souls that are


that silly on social media. Which one is


Islamiz? Have we not been Christianizing


Nigeria? Where have you seen and now


they want to Christianize Nigeria? Baba


go and win souls that don't be lazy. So


is the president that will defend us.


They want to Islamize Nigeria. Go and


win.


Go and win souls.


How we have fooled oursel publicly to be


talking about Islamization agenda when


we have a Christianization agenda. What


about our violent agenda to take it by


force


that does not involve of course


it doesn't involve all of that


does not involve


Abdulai


[Laughter]


jihadi. So I said this is a holy jihad.


The Hebrew word kum utterly blot out.


I stand with


that know what brought the crusades. So


the movement people


with the ninth templars finish all the


people that don't want to lay claim to


the kina movement you know the kina


movement north south east and west


you know the north south east and west


you don't know why


and of course they have apologized for


the many bloodshed that came with all of


those uh small power that constant time


and the rest since they say Christianity


is now a state religion they just now


move it now move it far we now bullying


other church that have suffered


persecution for years forgot that they


persecution everybody a Christian now we


dagger them so that's not how so we


shouldn't be bothered that people who do


not know the law of course we just of


interpretation not all of such people


not all of such is Ishelites uphold uh


weird views


some of them are some of the best people


you will ever meet and you must be


tolerant of other people at the same


time.


Are you with me? All right. But in the


preaching of the gospel, we have an


agenda. Jesus said go into all the world


and preach the gospel.


When was the last time you won it? So


then you are you have the gods to type


on social media they want to. You are


the you are part of the people that are


allowing it. Because if we are all


aggressive on our station,


we have more person saved.


Because you never see people crying that


we want to Christianize Nigeria


or Christianize the world. You know what


I mean? I'm trying to use I try not to


use that word Christianity because of


how it is now established as one of the


religions in the world. We want all the


air to worship his God. All the air to


worship their God. And that their God is


the maker of heaven and earth and the


maker of all the gods.


The true God is what we are introducing


to. So if not you will lay claim and say


uh Jesus died for Christians. What does


that mean? Jesus died for the whole


world. All the world can be for the


Lord.


Now the tag used to explain all those


that are for the Lord through the


through Jesus Christ is called


Christianity. We can adopt it and use it


but we know that we are not holding it


in that uh ideological manner that


people hold on to it as one of the


ideologies you upheld


religion religious one of the ideologies


you uphold the one I uphold is


Christianity ah that's more than that


too it's a way of life for us it's not a


system of rules and dogma we uphold so


if I can follow the this and this. If I


can follow the this and this 10 then I


am no is have you met the man Jesus


as involve an introduction to the god


not a set of rule which is why we


separated from morality because every


other religion is entered in by the


gateway of morality there's what to do


and what not to do


for the Christian is not set of rules is


meet Jesus


meet Jesus


No one cometh to him and he cast out. So


biblical perspective is not just a moral


system. Not because it's against


morality. We said it's not a political


view or a political statement. I'm


right-wing leftwing.


Did you get it?


So


because the ultimate ruler we are we are


for is that the Lord Jesus will be the


governor of the nations. That's the


that's what every believer stands for.


Now do we want uh


righteous people to rule? Yes. Do we


want all of that? Yes. So a biblical


perspective should not be seen as oh the


political statement who uh which party


you belong to because the party is just


a vehicle that brings the person into


position and any


rational


person which people don't want to be


because of the whole social media craze


C R A Z E in that context the whole uh


energy G doesn't allow people to calm


down. So let's assume this new political


party that everybody want and like


becomes the dominant party with this pot


belly tips not crossover.


Sorry about the use of the word pot


belly. It's just for emphasis so that


you will know the people I'm talking


about. Nobody's coming to your mind.


It's a transition of tips now. So the


thiefs have crossed over too with some


good well-meaning people still being


part but the thieves will also cross


over because this is how they look at


some is it not some thiefs


that also entered that we saw that


people were surprised say ah that guy is


the party that we voted for because


people did not look everybody was just


we need to vote out these people. So


some thief snuck in through the window


entered and they got the ticket. I think


some of them are decapping back to what


they are decapping back to. Politicians


will be politicians before you start


getting angry. It is a science.


People have to win election. That's why


you now your own will not win because he


does not want to learn the science. Now


heid to learn it. You're angry with him


now. How can he go and shake hands with


what do people want? How can he form


quorum? So that


people will just we send your white


that's just it


say oh he's not


the saint has joined the thiefs they are


still not happy say let's bring him out


again


parables these are all parables if you


know you know so as a Christian my


biblical perspective is not a political


statement my biblical perspective is far


greater than that because if there's a


political statement to my biblical


perspective is that the Lord will rule


all the nations. That's ultimately my


bibl my political perspective. So, so


which political perspective do you have


for the whole world that all the earth


will be eaten? That's the political


perspective that every believer have.


Are you getting it? If we are even going


to have a because that's how that the


kind of politics we are looking for. We


are looking for God being


the ruler of the nation so that


righteousness and equity cuz only then


can you see as long as he's a man that


is seen with imperfection and frailties


there will always be even in the best of


what we call sena climbs c l i m e s


even in those s clims outside the


country welldeveloped nations you still


see corruption


in the words of the sen lawyer that He


said where did we learn the word


corruption from? Is it not them that


taught us where is the word corruption?


Is it not come with additional be


English?


So if they were not corrupt if there's


no corruption there where how come they


have agencies that also tackle


corruption and all of those things.


So there's a perspective or philosophy.


So a biblical perspective we said is a


biblical perspective. It is not a moral


system


not because that it is against behavior


but how the behavior is is produced. It


is not a political statement not because


we don't have an agenda. Our political


agenda is for God to be the ruler of all


the nations. However, it is not which


party do you belong to because we should


be able to see that parties are just


instrument


that people choose to because the person


cannot come with his own name. He has to


come through a party.


So that party becomes the umbrella


that covers


the whole


uh candidacy and all the


uh policies, the ideas that the


individual wants to bring


good and bad. It's not everybody in the


country that is good. There are evil,


wicked, e good and bad. It's not


everybody in the country that is good.


There are evil, wicked, e uh bad persons


within that uh government. But he is


going to reign and rule over everybody.


So you can't say my first is to get rid


of all the wicked and bad people then


this is has turned to something else


because that is not the work of a


politician.


rule make laws uh um execute the law in


such a manner. That's why you are the


branch called executive. Execute laws in


such a manner that will help the


well-being of the people. Enforce


justice things should be done properly.


Let the communities develop and grow.


Do all the things that you are supposed


to do. Is that not what they


democratically elected for?


But to now want them to be over


Christians, it does not exist. Because


if a Christian is the president and a


Christian is the vice, which you and I


like, which is not a problem.


What you should


be after is that Nigeria developed and


got better. Not that we have bragging


rights that we have, which is what supre


don't understand about that biblical


perspective that we're talking about


because what we ultimately want is a


better nation.


Because if you are fighting for the


wrong thing,


what is the color of the person's skin,


what tribe, what language, what uh


religion does the person uphold?


Important thing, can this person work?


Will this person deliver? So the best


man gets a job. But because there is now


a science to politics, an art and a


science to it, it's not always the best


man that gets job. Like you know from


secondary school when you started


contest, those of you that have ever


done h schools that allow for people to


vote to be head boy and head girl vote


for me. I will ensure that all the late


comers, all the this, all the lady, all


the this, all the late comers, all the


people that are unserious, I will stop


the bullying of younger student, you


know, win because part of the reason why


people want


to become seniors that they will bully


the younger ones because they were also


bullied when they were in the younger,


they could not wait to SS3


house. They could not wait to SS to to


take people's milo. They could not wait


because their own was also taken. So how


can you where we know and you say vote


for me for this?


You said all of these statements that


are good and noble, moral and upright.


Then there's this other guy that says,


"Uh, you know me. When I come in, I will


allow you all


to have things done your way."


That's not nice, but it's pleasing to


the ear. I will, I'm not saying this the


right one, follow how science or


politics is done. I will defend you at


every time against the authority. Even


the school will not want that candidate.


But that's why people will vote for when


people defend us against


the school authority.


This guy is really hitting. You see what


he's doing is hitting the nail for what


everybody likes.


They now voted for this guy who appeared


to look like he's in an evil umbrella


party


is in I'm not speaking about the symbol


of the the political party.


It seemed like he's in an evil party. He


has entered then shocks everybody. He's


for people coming early. You know people


are going to be angry


>> like how did this guy enter? How did we


let him say no no no no no no he's just


trying to play nice but he has done one


year he has left things are better


many times


you must learn because last that's


you must learn how to play the game


because the important thing is you want


to be there


but emotive people lie once they just


see you sound somehow


cannot be cannot be cannot be. That's


why you should be bold to say you know


me, you know the principles I stand for.


So this party is saying all of these


things but I am this. That's why we


judge the leaders and we say okay these


guys who were Christians like we have


said they have also stolen money. How


can


a Christian whether he's democratically


elected or whether it's the president of


device because we have had presidents


that were Christians that upheld and


said that they were Christians but we


didn't see them standing for the things


that they ought to have stood for again


what was the challenge of failure or


proper disciplehip


and that proper disciplehip is what


biblical perspective does for


So you know how a Christian ought to


behave in society that you know that no


you cannot be part of the people causing


the trouble. You have to do things. So


how does God reign and rule? That's how


you will reign and rule.


In a world of selfishness you will reign


by generosity. In a world of wickedness


you will reign by goodness. In a world


of


evil and wickedness you bring the


opposite. So how God reigns and rule is


what you will learn. And that's what the


biblical perspective gives us. We see


how God reigns and rule. How God is a


God of justice and how he judges things


is what we will learn. Not uh I cannot


say I'm a Christian and I hold to a


party or a party that know cannot be it


cannot be or biblical perspective is


bigger than that. So it's not which


political statement did you adopt? You


know what mean by political statement


now? Which party are you in? Come on.


>> Because all political parties have their


statement.


The individual himself where he say what


is his own uh what's the word they call


it the uh


what's the paper they write his


manifesto.


The individuals have manifesto to the


degree that that manifesto is subject to


the party because the party itself has


it own manifesto. Every political party


candidate manifesto is ultimately shaped


by


the political party that they are in


because the political party manifesto


should be the individual's manifesto.


So that's what why we use the proper


phrase. Biblical perspective is not just


a political statement because that


manifesto is a statement of that party.


And if you notice, if you go and read


it, you always look nice, constant


light.


Go and read those manifesto. Now you'll


be wondering this is this is greater


than the best nation.


Yeah. Start walking now. You start


seeing what you did not expect.


So it's not a political statement. So


biblical perspective the same thing um


uh a word that should not have been


demonized have now been demonized.


There's the negative of every of these


things. A word like godfather.


People pray to have godfathers. They say


sir aducated my son. You are the


godfather of this boy.


You are the godfather.


Hey, now you woke up. I knew I know how


to get you guys.


You don't know what


making it work. Is that not the book he


has written for you?


Sir, you are the


vib you sir. You don't know ver you. Ah,


you don't know part of the smith


competing with the other one.


These are the billon the ones that you


are thinking are billonas in that are


not Forbes or don't know them.


Glow sir,


you don't know glow.


Glow sir Mike sir you are the godfather


don't know glow you are the godfather of


this child notice nobody say ah enough


is enough say no to godfather


my say no


I godfather miser


you see so we realize how normal


thinking people think then um I don't


like all of those things so Then uh you


try to get a job you could not. So he


said uh there's this guy I know just


take your phone I just call him uh he's


uh the chairman of the whole board of


people hiring. So what's his name? Jere


right


let's assume he's those round ringing


but this one you just press it.


I he gave you his number. He say oh yeah


you're the one chief sent. Yeah chief


said no no I'm going to walk it for you.


Of course when they come to share that


testimony in church bed Yahweh did it


Christian nice testimony we remove chief


we remove allergy


why remove


as if God uses men


>> and you now get angry that is there of


course is there an evil part to it too


yes how is based on we I also recommend


somebody that is not qualified and you


go and put the person. The person that


could not do a job is now killing lives.


How did you get how did you become a


doctor? He say it was my uncle, sister,


younger brother, nephew, auntie, son


that put me here.


They say h the the


chief


medical uh the what do they call the


chief resident the one in charge and the


junior ones stretch his hand like this


say give me you go and give me cutas


say to tear the stomach open say give me


scissors thinking that you are seen the


operation


go and give syringe


That's they say, "Oh, you're the one


now. You came highly recommended." All


right. All right. All right. Don't go.


So bandage inside stomach. All the


things you used to walk, you left it


inside the stomach because as the light


you were taking it from inside the


stomach to be walking


something that you can go to jail for


because they say it came highly


recommended. You see they highly


recommended. So it can work in the


negative. You can also if you recommend


people that are skillful. Nice. Are you


following? Recommend people that oh he


can grow in the job. Oh nice. So


nobody's angry when it's them that is


recommended. So then


those who study politics know that you


can't get into the system without having


people who back you. That's the word. If


not for your candidate which when they


now became governors they learned they


now stop using the same word. They now


become governor for the next one that


say uh tba


these are parables


are parables


I'm giving parables ab


[Music]


you put your boy your boy revote against


you then switch party to fight you that


was originally against god for that


reason because when will people learn


that you cannot remove it's not a except


is the godfather movie you are having in


mind as godfather or something else but


the use of the word there has to be a


mentor of sort whatever name you call


that whatever definition you give that


is not the issue


there has to be somebody who opens the


door for you and why Christians why


intelligent persons good people like you


and I who have proper plans and good


plans for the nation can never enter


there Because we once we just go for the


community meeting in our party meeting


and we see some people there ah never


this white point is a dirty game it's a


dirty game count me out and the more we


remove ourselves the more we leave it


for the people who are thieves and


crooks to stay there are you getting me


then oh somebody recommend so you need


to know where to compromise and when not


to compromise and say uh


if you enter that position you will do


this and this and this and this for me


question is why sir first proper


question to ask is why why should I do


all of these things for you sir are you


electing me for you


don't say that plainly if not you walk


you'll walk you out you say madam is


that the boy you brought he was


questioning me so so indirectly you know


what you are seeing so you need to be


very astute,


very uh uh smart, street wise


to know how to use words. Then be


careful what to sign. Don't go and sign


something that later they have used


administrator to remove you.


Parables


are parables.


Then you now said we were we


was say this sim card is who we need.


Were we there when were we were we there


when they were dosing you? Now you want


us to fight a battle we did not know


where they inserted you into the phone.


Parables.


Parables


I've confused some person. If I just


want you to say you are not in this


country that's why only people that


confused Jesus spoke often in parables.


All right.


So they have inserted him in the phone


and then they removed him from the phone


is angry because this is not the terms


of the arrangement. We were not there.


So of course the emotional we go we go.


We not go. If he meant well for the


nation, for the state, should he have


agree to those terms to be certain to


the phone.


Now people are angry that he has been


trimmed to size to fit the exact device.


You know, I'm always inspired. That's


just it. I don't pre I don't plan all


these examples. They just come. I'm a


man of inspiration.


And you should know that uh the


prophetic function allows for all manner


of inspiration good or bad.


So it's fitted to size. Now he wants to


return properly fitted to size. People


are saying ah it's not fair it's not


fair. We go we go. So he and his family


and his constituent go agree and when


the time is right having been fitted to


size into the phone he will be


slaughtered in


that's politics say oh no he goes to


church that that has been fitted to size


was in church the other day doing


thanksgiving with the enemy of his soul.


So politics


is something that one must learn


properly and that's why people go to


school and they are taught


the science of it. Then you now learn


the street. Look at this great


candidate. He's in his house posting on


social media. Street credibility does


not have


people do not know him but he wants to


win an election. What a joker. I said


the Lord is with me as a mighty terrible


one. The Lord the Lord will be voting


for you. The Lord that's why that one


say I am number 30. I'm number 27. I'm


number six. I'm number seven. I'm number


eight. After this president I'm the next


one. The Lord have said the Lord failed


again his prediction. The Lord said I'm


the next one. He did not win. The Lord


said I'm the next one not win. Lord said


I'm the next one. He did not win. You


have stopped seeing the Lord. Huh? Your


pastor that want to be president now.


Others like him suffer reincarnation


when they put Baba in front


of their names. But this one is a man of


God


and


we have seen him


come again and again and he said is


putting Jesus Christ who know you sir.


We only know your big church in Lagos.


What credibility? What grassroot? And


that's where people say those people get


angry. They say we need structure. Say


no, we are the structure. We are the


structure. You could be agent your poly


unit that day.


We are


don't let people


we are the structure. We are the


structure. How many of them were


destructured that day in the bowling


unit?


These are mysteries and parables.


>> Amen.


Hallelujah. Praise God.


>> The point I'm making is so I round off


from this point political statement is


simple. There is how politics is played


and see it as a game. That's why many of


them they repositions our friends. They


shout lambast each other on social


media. Then later you see them giving


high five hugs. One is standing at the


other one's father to give away his


daughter in marriage. Then I'm wondering


these are enemies


for this cause. Two friends


have severe ties


for this these same people. For this


cause two brothers are not talking again


the same house eating the same mother


soup but they're not talking. They only


lay claim to the same mother but no


longer lay claim to the same


family tie that bank is broken because


of party. I all these same people later


you see that that same person has


crossed over they now saying it was


there when I was in that party I said


those things but now we are here I


cannot say that he's not workingh they


blame the old video say when did I say


that claim


that is how people have seen politics


so biblical perspective


is not a political statement but


actually being shame It


allowing sound doctrine shapes you in


how you function


in the society and in this place in the


governmental space. So you will


obviously be different and the sad thing


is that those over time cannot be


different and now bow into the system.


It can be different. Choose to be


different.


Choose to be different.


Did you get it? Yes sir.


>> So what a biblical perspective is


is far more than all those


we go we go great concept. So the our


perspective is inescapable is our way of


seeing. We talked about that already. is


the is the perspective we have of life


that is shaped by Bible teaching that


influences how we relate one with


another


how we see the world how we live in the


world


so it is not which party you support put


it in simple term it is not oh I didn't


like that behavior oh the party you


support oh the economic reform you buy


into is Not the school, the clothes you


wear. A biblical perspective is greater


than all of that. It is that


my perspective is shaped by biblical


teachings which we call sound doctrine.


Amen. My perspective is shaped by what?


So how you see life is your perspective.


So a biblical perspective is the


framework that shapes how we understand


the world.


What directs your actions within it. So


everyone views life through a unique


filter. And that filter is what we are


calling the perspective of your life.


Amen. Which we can also call the


philosophy of your life.


Amen.


So as a Christian we should uphold what


proper perspective biblical perspective


for life. And this biblical perspective


like we said should now be


shaped by sound doctrine. So what is


that word sound doctrine? I wish there's


one Bible verse that spells out all the


sound doctrine of every topic every


every what we call systematic theology.


every


systemized uh topic


we have. Oh, we just go to Romans, you


see everything you need to know about


this subject of righteousness. You go to


Galatians, everything you need to know


about graces. Then you have to


lean towards interextual corroboration.


Amen. So the word sound doctrine,


the word sound doctrine is used four


times in 1 Timothy 1:10.


For war mongers, for them that divide


themselves with mankind, for men, for


liars, for per and if there be any other


thing that is contrary to sound doctrine


according to the glorious gospel. So it


says that uh the


1 Timothy chapter 1


from verse three you'll get the context


is a warning against false teachers. So


he was given a warning against for false


teachers


as I besought thee. Look at the original


use of the word doctrine. The first time


he uses it there verse three. I besought


thee to abise still at Ephesus when I


went into Macedonia that thou mightest


charge son that they teach no other


doctrine. Did you see that? That they


teach no other doctrine.


So there is a particular doctrine to


teach that they teach no other doctrine.


The word doctrine there that they teach


no other doctrine. Teach something


different.


Neither give heed to fibos.


So he says all of those things to be of


the law. Then he now ended it that all


of these things is also the same things


that are against sound doctrine. So


false teachers are against sound


doctrine.


The word doctrine he will use it a lot


in Timothy but I'm just looking at that


word sound doctrine. Second Timothy 4. I


charge you therefore before God and the


Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the


quick and the dead at his appearing


and his kingdom. Preach the word. Be


instant in season and out of season.


Reprove, rebuke, exalt with all


longsuffering and doctrine. For the time


will come when they will not endure


sound,


but after their own laws shall he to


theel teachers having itching ear.


So the sound doctrine, sound hugo,


wholesome doctrine. Just like when you


go to the hospital for a uh a full body


checkup, they are going to do all of


that checkup. So a sound doctrine,


wholesome doctrine, healthy doctrine. So


a healthy doctrine.


So so people say we are for sound mean


they are saying something that does not


follow. So it's not it can be a it can


be a manipulative strategy people use to


buy to get other persons to be on their


side and then you not hear what the


person is explaining. This is what is


sound about this one sound doctrine not


be sound doctrine.


Amen. So sound doctrine


the word doctrine did explanation of the


text. So where do we get our doctrine


from? So sound doctrine is where do we


get our doctrine from? We've read this


Timothy again and again. 2 Timothy 3:16.


All scriptures given by inspiration of


God and it is profitable for doctrine.


So where do we get our doctrines from


the Bible? So sound doctrine is a


healthy explanation from Genesis to


Malach and now Matthew to Revelation. to


a healthy a thorough. So when you say


the Bible says I've told you over the


years the Bible says not a Bible verse.


The Bible says means I have read this


subject matter from Genesis to


Revelation and I can come to this


conclusion just like Paul says. So we


conclude that a man is not justified by


the we conclude those conclusions come


from having a thorough understanding


which is what systematic theology means


which is why they teach pastors


systematic theology in Bible schools so


that they have a systemized approach to


those topics so they already know it in


an organized


manner so you know okay this is what


this mean this is how this is used.


Amen.


>> So doctrine for the time we come where


they will not endure sound doctrine.


Titus 1:9 holding fast the faithful


words as he has been taught that he may


be able by sound doctrine go to exalt


and convince the gains say so you can


convince people better. So the word


sound doctrine, Titus 2:1, speak thou


the things that become sound doctrine.


So sound doctrine is doctrine from the


Bible that is sound. Because you can


have a doctrine from the Bible that is


not sound. And we have all different


types of doctrine in the Bible. It says


there are doctrines that are the


commandment of men. There's the doctrine


of the Pharisees and Sadducees. what the


father and son brought out from the


Bible. Matthew 16:12, Jesus said,


"Beware of the leaven of bread


then understood the how that he be them


not to be not to not to beware of the


leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of


the Sadducees." Where he said, "Beware


of the leaven of the Pharisees and


Sadducees," it is beware of the doctrine


of the Pharisees and Sadducees. So there


are doctrines. In Matthew 15:9, we saw


doctrine as the commandment of men.


In Mark 1 27, they told Jesus, "What new


doctrine is it? And with what authority


does he command devils to live?" So


there was a doctrine that does not know


that devils can be exercised, cast out.


So it looks shocking to those people


that doctrine that you can cast out


devil. we look. So there are doctrines


that are interpretations people have.


And he said unto them in his doctrine


Mark 12:38, "Beware of the scribes which


love to go in love in long clothing."


So


doctrine Romans 16:1 17. Now I beseech


you bed, mark them which cause division


and offenses contrary to the doctrine


which you have learned and avoid them.


So there's doctrine.


So there can be wrong doctrine.


Ephesians 4:14 that we henceforth be no


more children tossed to and fro and


carried about with every wind of


doctrine by the slight of men conning


cloudiness whereby they lie wait to


deceive.


So every wind of doctrine. So sound


doctrine is now that I allow the Bible


form my explanation. So which we call


exesis critical examination of the text.


So I am led to the conclusion from the


text. I do not read my interpolation


into.


So led out. So what I bring out I'm not


innovating. I'm excavating. So when I go


into the scripture, what I am bringing


that is exactly what the Bible says. So


I use the Bible to explain the Bible


which is more than give me two or three


witness. No two or three witness.


It's not it's more than that. What two


or three witness used to establish a


testimony as valid. So when we say two


or three witness and you want to use two


or three Bible verse, why are you scared


of all the Bible saying the same thing?


There's a the Bible tells a unified


story of God's plan and purpose for


mankind. So we can run through the Bible


so that we don't have oh this part is


contradicting this part. There are no


contro there are no contradictions in


the Bible. Contradictions only exist in


the mind of somebody who is not


interpreting a text properly. Amen.


>> And Bible study is a painstaking effort.


You have to be patient because it's


torn. We have to read.


We will even read the arguments against


read it. Where did they get it from?


Then we now go back and read the Bible


in the historical context, the


grammatical context, the cultural


context and the literal context that the


people had. So the other was I need to


hear


what they heard in the then and there


then cross over to our world today to


hear the same thing in our world today.


So what they because I'm not the


audience it was not written to me it was


written for me they wrote to so how were


the people of that day thinking and


reasoning that we frame how I interpret


text. Did you get it?


>> Yes sir.


>> Amen. Amen.


>> So as a believer, should we have a


biblical perspective of life? Yeah. Are


there Christians that have things


against hard work?


>> Because


a doctrine they learned in church


seem to be against hard work.


She looking at me surprised.


Are there people that hate anybody that


is poor?


Are are there churches that look like


they support racism?


Yeah, there


some


80 years back in


85% of all the congressions the banner


group of research gives those details.


If a black man walked into a church in


America, they will be looking at it like


he did something wrong. Like is this not


the sinner that we're talking about?


It's not the people that are going to


that have entered. So, so it used to be


an issue


where you see where people are looking


shocked. It used to be an issue. So,


because from their Bible


what they have been able to use the


Bible to support racism tribal is the


same way today there are pastors on


their pit who speak down on a particular


tribe. Whether it looks funny to them


but it's not funny and it's not just a


joke. You can understand, okay, the


person is just throwing He's just


being funny. But he actually has a


problem with EO people. He actually have


a problem with people. He actually have


a problem with uh people. He actually


has a problem with fani people.


Once you see a fan man wrong from


church, what kind of training is this?


So you cannot that is a problem that one


you are not tolerant of other people's


views.


Ah and laying claim to Jesus Christ to


be that kind of person.


No. So there are people who uh the same


thing from the Bible. They were told


that a Christian should have nothing to


do with politics.


You guys are looking surprised. I be


they don't pastors are not they don't


teach like that. The same way pastors


also teach that


women should never having to do with


ministry.


We talked about that last week. Come on.


Don't make me look like I'm wasting my


time. Job. Pastors also teach that


I think much of the confusions that we


having today, there's a there's a


there's a doctrinal position for all the


different errors that are flying around.


But is not from the Bible with just


critical examination. The same way the


people that want to defend


that we should for one hour just be


doing la.


That one is even nice. Abby


just put K in front. You know what that


should mean?


You don't even know who Okay.


We call it chanting


3 hours. Ah, 2 hours, 1 hour. S. So,


it's about the time. No, it's not about


the time.


Music is about lyrics. The words must


edify. We need to know what it means.


What does


I can understand if you put it inside


because of melody trying for rhythm and


beat but the fact that the whole song is


now


the chorus is


sorry one of we we are we cannot follow


you to be mad. The Bible has a


perspective on music. You cannot you


cannot get angry that we are trying to


correct it because he say he did


something to me. Sensationalism and


emotionalism is not spirituality.


That's why


we we have a great preacher all the way


from all the way and they come and the


video the cameramen are training


as people are crying.


Pour out your heart to the Lord.


Pour out your heart to the Lord. Let God


see your not show the record where he


was say. Let God see your emotions.


Be naked before your God. Pour out your


heart. Cry out for we need revival. We


need revival.


Then as for the people to get it, you


quickly get one of those guys. Nice.


They just start playing. They just touch


the key. You need the the melody to go


with it.


It's the same thing. All of them are the


same thing. That is is which melody?


feel the


see we are connecting with the youth


not connecting with the youth


when we started correcting those ideas


it died a bit you see it's going it's


fading away because uh it's fading away


we Um


say it is


of course um no rational or proper


thinking person should have a problem


with a but the issue is what are you


using it to do if you are now using it


to say you want to connect that there's


a depth and a real inside what does it


mean what does a mean that's the


challenge because there is every sound


have signification Bible tells us


because when we know that there's even a


religious coision of light and sound


that have meaning for all of these sound


theist have their books. So this is 2025


knowledge is going to the earth. You


cannot just be doing see any sound you


see and you are doing


you to z


if you know you know


every sound have meaning sound have mean


that's why when they touch the key it


means something


that's why they can interpret it


all those things have interpretation


because Is there something you want to s


you want to sing you want it to go like


this you cannot tell us that it doesn't


matter no biblical perspective affect


everything. So when you say have a


biblical perspective of life I use the


Bible to accept


or to reject anything I see in life. So


my views my perspective the way I live


the way I see life is always shaped by


Bible. So I cannot be among people that


say let them be now leave them alone. Is


it not just music that they are singing?


No, that is Colossians 3:16. Let the


word of Christ you richly


say teaching and admonishing one another


in psalms, hymns and spiritual songs.


Singing and making melody in your heart,


singing with grace in your heart unto


the Lord. There's the essence of singing


is to edify. You can use those psalms


and spiritual song to admonish one


another.


That's why we say the worship team, the


choir of any church should all be


teachers because they amplify the


teaching.


They amplify the teaching. The lyrics


matter. We cannot just tell me uh the


song is trending so I should jump into


it. What does the song mean? What does


this mean? Because I need to be careful


what I am singing. So what does this


that we are doing mean? Like I said, we


are we have brain. So we understand when


you do ah just for the song to have


rhyme. But when you is now like this is


the focus of the song. Sorry. We wash


our hand off it.


Oh, we understand when you put that into


just for the song to have


beat have uh the vibe, the energy, the


thing you want to communicate. But when


is now the focus of the song. Sorry


it is wrong that right from if David was


confused like that people will we have


book of psalms


that are psalms now say say say say say




say say say say say say say say say say
say say say say say say say say say say




say say say say say say say say say say
say say say say say say say say say say




say say say say say say say say say say
say say say say say say I'm a psalmist


so what do you do


just use champions league beats


Amen.


[Music]


>> So everyone has a unique filter and


sound doctrine should be our unique


filter that we see life. H should you


take bribe?


Say what does the Bible have to say? The


Bible doesn't say anything wrong with


taking bribe. I uh my friend you're


dangerous.


No, you cannot take bribe.


What about mobilization fe?


No. No.


You can never turn back. No mobilization


fee.


Anything that involves bribe, run from


it. Say sir, what about lobbying? What


does lobbying mean it's not bribe? Now


lobbying you is used for different


things. That's it can be that's why even


politicians have lobbyist.


It's more of a political term.


You lobby people to vote in a certain


way. I want this bill to pass. You lobby


people towards it.


The word lobby.


Lobby generally means an entry or


reception area. But is is a group of


people who try to influence people,


influence public officials as the word


lobbyist.


And those people obviously have big


pockets because lobby is also used as a


waiting area in front of a bank. So the


word lobby is just an attempt to


influence people which is basically


officials. You are in favor of a


specific opinions. So all law makers


have their own lobbyist within so that


there's a law there's a motion we want


to pass. So they lobby people so that we


can say the eyes have it.


That's just polit politics. Amen. So


sound doctrine should shape how we see


things. Amen. What about marriage?


Should I have a sound doctrine


perspective of marriage?


>> What about my identity?


Who I am? Should I have a sound doctrine


perspective of who I am? my identity, my


nature, my tax, my purpose. There are


many Christians who have a wrong


perspective about


a wrong perspective about their purpose.


What is your purpose on this head? My


purpose is to be a lawyer. My purpose on


this earth is to be a banker.


No, those are physical career parts. You


can choose any of such things. You were


put on this earth to be God's man, to be


an image of God, to represent God's


purposes and plan. It can mean different


things to different persons, but the


general purpose is always living for the


glory of God. Amen. So regardless of the


occupation or whatever you are to do


that you should do well, it should be


that you live to the glory of God. Amen.


That's who you are,


where I am, what is wrong with the


world. I mean all your views should be


shaped by the Bible. And this Bible is


what we are calling in this context what


sound


doctrine.


[Applause]


Should I have a proper view about the


natural and the supernatural?


Amen. Should I have the supernatural


fighting the natural? So I should have a


proper perspective. In the beginning,


God created the heaven and the earth. So


should I have a biblical perspective of


principalities and powers of devils and


demons? Should I have a biblical


perspective? Should I have a biblical


perspective of the authority of the


believer? So we it should be the Bible


that shapes not just doctrinal subject


but also how I live in society. And


there are Christians who when you talk


believe for a miracle they say I will


come off it. Stop that nonsense.


It's a Christian that is telling you


will you stop with that nonsense. Which


one is miracle? Which one is power of


God? Leave all those things j is a


concept.


There are Christians that almost have


atheistic views.


Amen. Concerning the faith because they


always asking many questions and those


questions tend towards atheism.


So what biblical perspective do you


have? It should be a perspective shaped


by sound doctrine. Which is why every


subject we teach, every subject we teach


is shaping and framing your biblical


perspective concerning life, concerning


how you live. Hallelujah.


>> Amen.


>> Amen.


>> So there's an ordinary dimension of this


life. There's the hidden orderly


dimension of this life. And


I have the physical and the spiritual


component of my life. And that's how I


live on this earth. I cannot


but live with my spiritual ordination. I


have to be to be human is to be


spiritual is to be supernatural. That's


why man at the core wants to be


supernatural. Because to be human is to


be supernatural. God made man to be


spiritual. To be supernatural. The


breath of life that makes man a living


soul is from God. Man's essence


cannot be seen or touched with the hand.


Hallelujah.


>> And I must have those healthy


perspective. So I must have a heaven and


earth perspective. I must have not oh is


Jesus Christ so I don't need to do


anything. No heaven and earth physical


spiritual should not conflict.


Faith and science should not be


separated. The seen and the unseen


should not be separated in your world


view, in your perspective, in your


philosophy. They should all come


together as one. Hallelujah.


>> Amen.


>> Amen.


>> So what kind of perspective do you have?


Must be a biblical perspective


concerning how you see the world, how I


live in this world. So will that take a


bit of work? So how will I get that


biblical perspective? Will it not be


learning the word of God? So as I become


a student of God's word and I commit


myself to sound doctrine, I would have a


biblical perspective of living life and


seeing life.


Amen.


>> Some people their biblical perspective


is all things are lawful. They also


forget to add but all things will not


edify. If it's lawful does that mean it


edifies? Ultimately


people know what they are looking for.


So


I'm a believer. My ideas, my


philosophies are shaped by God's word.


Hallelujah.


I believe in miracles. I'm not ashamed


to say it. I'm not ashamed to say it. Do


people say think like that? I think like


that. I think like that. I think like


that. I think the power of God. I think


the help of God. I think wisdom. I I


don't see people that believe in being


excellent in the workplace. As a


Christian, I think like that. I believe


in excellence in my industry. I should


know my craft well. I should understand


how to do my things well. I should not


have a perspective that says the


Christian cannot be the best in a field.


No, I want to be a great doctor, a great


lawyer, a great uh academician, a


professor. I want to be a great


a good one, a good one, a good writer, a


good business person.


I want to do it well. That should be


your pursuit.


Not using the Bible to say it doesn't


matter if I'm good or not. The Bible is


not there's no biblical perspective that


say you should not be good in it.


There's no biblical perspective that say


you should not. So stop having wrong


perspective that says oh as a Christian


I can't be I should be a mediocre.


There's no biblical perspective that


supports mediocrity.


Can God use a mediocre? Yes. Can God use


an average man? Yes. Can God use a


skillful man? Yes.


But ultimately which one do you think


God wants to use best? the one that can


have the best use


per time, per situation. And that's


where you always find God. Hallelujah.


>> Praise God.


>> Amen.


>> Amen.


>> I care for the edification of the people


around me. That's why we pursue


spiritual. That's why we love spirituals


to edify, to build up people. Amen.


Stand on your feet. Thank the Lord


Jesus.


of biblical perspective of life. How do


I get that firm sound doctrine? Firm


sound doctrine. Am I mind how I think?


We need more Christians in the society.


Are you hearing me? You need to engage


in society. The Christian life as like I


teach you in experience. You are called


to engagement and distinctiveness.


You cannot fear darkness. You must


engage darkness. We are called


to turn darkness to light. We are called


to change the system. Hallelujah. I'll


play my part. I'll play my part. I'll


play my part. I'll play my part. Don't


be afraid to be in society. We need


Christian in society. And you can't be


in society without a biblical


perspective.


If not, society will swallow you. Amen.


So make up your mind. I'll hold on to


the teachings of God's word. I'll hold


on. It will be the wisdom for living for


me. God's word will be wisdom for


living.


God's word I will be different. There's


a song we used to sing when we're


children. I will be different for the


Lord.


When others choose to see I be different


living for bring it as you have grown.


Still be different. Always be different


in society. Don't be what is wrong in


society. Don't be part of what is wrong


in society. That when they say


Christian, no, no, no, no. He say he


always says substandard things


be that them. No, no, no, no. But he say


the light,


the one that is doing things


differently, that's the nad them that we


fall into. Amen.


That is what it means to be a believer


in the society.


Amen. And I pray that truly truly that


we learn and choose to become exemplary


in the society, exemplary in business,


exemplary in politics, exemplary


in academics, in every field of life. We


choose to be exemplary


and God will help us. Amen. Lift your


hands and just pray in the Holy Ghost.


Thank you, Jesus. We're done.