There is no confusion in our hearts at


all. We declare that revelation


knowledge flow free course unhind that


and we take from your spirit take from


your power miracles


help intervention


by your mighty hand. Amen.


>> We declare that at the end of this


service, we will truly declare that we


have been edified, built up, transformed


by the power of your word and your


spirit in the name of Jesus.


>> So that the things that ought to be said


in this service will be said, the things


that ought to be done will be done to


the praise and glory of your name.


>> Amen.


>> God bless you. Have your seats.


a biblical perspective of life. We'll


pick up from where we stopped last week


Sunday will be Colossians chapter 2 and


we will start from that particular text


of scriptures. Colossians chapter 2 read


6 into


8. Colossians chapter 2


from 6 into 8. As ye have therefore


received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk


ye in him. As you have therefore


received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk


ye in him.


Rooted and built up in him and


established in the faith as you have


been taught, abounding therein with


thanksgiving.


Abounding therein with thanksgiving.


Abounding therein. That That's the


Christian life. I'm rooted and built up


in him. established in the faith. Strong


in the faith. I'm strong in the faith of


our Lord Jesus Christ. I'm strong in the


Christian faith. Is that you?


>> So, we must be rooted strong in the


faith which the teaching gave you as you


were taught. Notice how he says that as


you have been taught. So the teaching of


God's word strengthens you in your faith


and not the faith of I believe I receive


that is inclusive but in the whole life


of faith of the believer. I'm


strengthened in my Christian work. I'm


strengthened in my Christian work. It


says rooted and built up in him


established in the faith as you were


taught and overflowing with


thankfulness. There's thanksgiving


abounding. Amen. I'm full of


thanksgiving.


Verse eight. Then he says, "Beware."


Tell your neighbor, "Beware."


>> Beware,


>> lest any man spoil you. True philosophy


and vain deceit. We explained that word


last week Sunday. We'll pick it up from


there. Like I said, uh true philosophy


and vain deceit. The word philosophy


and vain deceit already reveals that he


doesn't have a problem with the word


philosophy. He can't have. In fact, Paul


himself has a philosophy for how he


teaches, how he u his world view or how


he lives as it were. So he can't have an


issue with the word philosophy. So the


word and which is kai


even that is. So


true philosophy even vain deceit of


philosophy that is vain. The conjunction


there is copulative not cumulative. So


the use of the word and there is


culative is coupling those two things


together the philosophy and the vain


deceit.


And it says after the traditions of men


after the rudiments of the world the


world the cosmos the elements of the


cosmos and not after Christ.


So we have


Paul is giving an explicit warning


and I use that word when he say spoil


you is the word to be taken captive.


Funny enough is the word in the modern


palance today. It will be the word we


use for to be kidnapped.


To be taken off and you not need to pay


ransom. It says don't let philosophies


kidnap you. So the captor


is described as philosophy and empty


deceit.


Did you get it?


That no one takes you captive by


philosophy and empty deceit. And he says


that philosophy and empty deceit is


according to human tradition is the way


people like to think and they have


passed it on to the next generation to


the next generation to the next


generation. And it says is also


according to the rudiments of this world


which is called the elemental spirit of


this world and not according to Christ


according to the rudiments of this world


the elements of the cosmos


which is both physical and unseen. And


that's why I use the word elemental


spirit of this world. Why? Because the


fabric of this world does not have uh


does not have heaven and earth


separated. I've told you before that is


a modern construct. It is in the 17th


century the sorry uh 16th to the 19th


century that period which is called the


age of enlightenment and the rise of


science and naturalism that we had that


construct that it became this is


natural. In fact, that's where the word


supernatural began to be used for the


word unseen or spiritual or heaven and


became more common. So people have, oh,


this is natural. This is super. So it's


over and if there's anything like that


is once in a lifetime. No, but the


ancient men knew that the world


everywhere around us, heaven and earth


are together. The sin and the unseen are


together. That's why as we are here


right now we can immediately somebody


gets healed immediately a revelation we


don't have to let us leave this world we


are not leaving this world is still in


the same world that we are picking


things by revelation picking things so


all transes revelation power gifts as we


know are all with us right now the


ministry of angels are active as we are


also here amen


>> so that distance is not found within


the fabric of scriptures and also in the


fabric of the ancient man's world view.


So nobody in the ancient world had any


mindset of uh power is not real. Maybe


miracles happen or not happen. Uh-huh.


No. Everybody believed that the that


there was a god and that the gods were


real and that the unseen world is a


vital part of this world. They didn't


see it as obsolute or something that has


expired.


No. So much of in fact Darwin's father


was an epicuran and epicuran philosophy


are those who believe that the gods have


nothing to do with this world because


they have suffered hearts and see that


many things did not work. So it look


like and again because they are not


Christian that's why I'm using the word


gods. So in their worship they believe


that oh all these Greek Roman gods that


we worship over time they worship over


time is what I mean by they use we are


distant since they are cosmic


celebrities as we see today in the Mar


DC world. which is how the ancient world


viewed them. They are distant. They


don't care again about our affairs. And


that philosophy evolved and built up


over time to what we now have Darwin's


evolution theory which he interpreted


his father's epicuran view more in the


light of science and developed it that


this thing let's start removing and all


in that age of enlightenment and also


intelligent men like him more of them


down the line kept giving that distance


and I'll teach you maybe this year or


next Maybe when we are doing unseen


forces again uh that faith and science


when you understand that there's no


difference because one of the things


that makes it hard to move in power like


this in fact the reason why we see


pastors uh becoming spooky in the name


of oh there's a dimension is because


doctrine is very key in the things of


the spirit once you have that idea you I


need to break into no he's here god is


with me here the power of god is with me


here and it's amazing We're talking


about the man in Christ who has God


inside of him. God is headquartered in


you. You are headquartered in God. God


is in you. You are in God. And we still


have that uh distance barrier. No, it


should always be heaven and earth


together. The fact the believer is the


heaven and earth people that becomes the


sign and the symbol to the unsaved. that


there's more beyond what we see and


touch and handle. That there is a


creator God vitally and actively at work


in our world and is vitally and actively


in our world through the church through


the body of Christ through the body of


believers. Amen. So when you read the


Bible always good to have that idea. So


you say what did this word rudy meant


which is just the word stokon which is


used for alphabet or the letters. So he


used for the elements of this world. Why


does it now connect to spirit? Because


they didn't have


a distance between physical and


spiritual. They believe everything is


together. So if there's the elements of


this world, it has to be physical and


spiritual at the same time. So you and I


read for you the different translations


not even having to do a deep study.


Different translations uses the word


elemental spirit. Where did they get


that from?


And translations are the laziest way to


interpret a text because they can be


very wrong because everybody interpret


based on his intelligence. But it's


different from when I can check what the


Greek word is and see how it was used


from Genesis to Revelation or if it's


the Greek text Matthew to revelation is


the Hebrew text Genesis to Malachi and I


can see how the word was used myself so


that I know okay and and situate it back


into the context which is Genesis which


is critical examination of that text


within the context in which it was


written and I will see the answer myself


because I don't need to make up answer


in the Bible. No, I read the Bible to


take answer because the answer is


already there. I don't give the Bible my


own meaning. I take meaning from the


Bible.


So you see the ESV for example and I


read which for you different


translations says see to it that no one


takes you captive by philosophy and


empty deceit because you are to see to


it not God.


See to it that no one takes you captive


by philosophy and empty deceit.


according to human traditions, according


to the elemental spirits of the world


and not according to Christ. NIV says


see to it that no one takes you captive


through holo and deceptive philosophy.


So that's the philosophy that joins that


word empty deceit and philosophy. So it


says holo and deceptive philosophy which


depends on human tradition


and the elemental spiritual forces of


this world rather than on Christ.


The NLT says don't let anyone capture


you with empty philosophies.


See that word capture. Don't let anyone


capture you with empty philosophies and


high sounding nonsense that comes from


human thinking and from the spiritual


powers of this world rather than from


Christ.


Now the New King James says beware lest


anyone cheat you through philosophy and


empty deceit according to the tradition


of men according to the basic principles


of this world. So it's basic principles


of this word and not according to


Christ. The Bian standard Bible says see


to it that no one takes you captive. So


you see that that was see to it. See to


it. That's why it says beware cuz it's


you. You can't be what somebody is


doing. No, you have to beware. You have


to see to it that no one takes you


captive. true philosophy and empty


deception which are based on human


tradition and the spiritual forces of


this world rather than on Christ.


The NE says, "Be careful not to allow


anyone to captivate you through an


empty, deceitful philosophy that is


according to human traditions and the


elemental spirits of this world and not


according to Christ.


The Webster English Bible Web says, "Be


careful that you don't let anyone rob


you through his philosophy and vain


deceit after the traditions of men,


after the elemental spirits of this


world and not after Christ." You see how


many translators they got it. Amen. So


that word rudiment is that word stoon.


Now see how it was used. It would help


second Peter 3:E 10 where Peter says,


"But the day of the Lord will come as a


thief in the night in the which the


heavens shall pass away with a great


noise and the element elements shall


make that's the word element to the


element not physical sun I've told you


before this is used to explain the


unseen powers


so the elements shall met with heat the


earth also and the works that are


therein shall be burnt up


speaking about


the first heaven and the first earth


passing away so that the new heavens and


the new earth can emerge


out of the dying of the old comes the


new. So we talked about new creation


project. So new creation is both a


project. We are in God's new creation


and all the earth will soon be new


creation. I've told you that several


times. All right. So that's what he's


talking about there. It says look for


and hastening unto the coming of the day


of God wherein the heavens being on fire


shall be dissolved and the elements


shall melt with a heat. That word


elements there is that word stood.


So the rudiment of this word are things


that originate in the word as opposed to


things that originate in God.


So we use the word rudiment first


principle or element the original of


anything in its first form. So any first


thing is the word rule dement


element


is used again in Hebrews 5:12 it says


for


for when for the time you ought to be


teachers you have nei that one teach you


again which be the first principles of


the oracles of God First principles of


the oracles of God. First principles of


the oracles of God.


Now to understand what that this oracle


is


supernatural context, see how he uses


that word oracle.


Acts 7 verse 38.


This is he that was in the church in the


wilderness with the angel. We spake to


him in the mount si with our fathers who


received the lively oracles to give unto


us. So


see that there's a supernatural being


involved a divine being involved the


angel which speak


the lively oracles to give onto us.


So the use of that word the same way


Peter uses in 1 Peter 4:11. If any man


speak, let him speak as the oracle of


God.


So when they use the word element, it


just means fundamental principles of a


thing. So like I told you, the word


rudiment is just first principle


element. the original of anything in its


first form. So when he says the rudiment


of the cosmos, what is the cosmos in its


first form? Apart from the heavens and


the earth, abi. So the the rudiment of


the cosmos, the biblical cosmology


begins with in the beginning God created


the heaven and the earth. and that


heaven and the earth just like Genesis 2


verse one thus the host of the heavens


and the earth were finished. So there's


the host of heaven and host of the


earth. Are you following? So that's


where the translators putting it into


the context understand


properly what the


context is saying that oh this element


here it's supernatural worldview.


So when they use it for rudiment,


the same thing in Galatians chapter 4


because he he uses the word bondage. And


now after that you have known God or


rather known of God, how turn you again


to the weak and beggely elements


speaking about because they have been


turned from idolatry. How go back to the


weak and beggely element? He calls


idolatry weak and beggely elements


because all of that did not allow them


to follow Christ. where unto you desire


again to be in bondage.


So he uses that word element.


The same thing in verse three of


Galatians 4.


Even so we when we were children were in


bondage under the elements of this


world. But when the fullness of time was


come,


God sent forth his son. How were we? How


were we in born under the elements of


this world is why upon the resurrection


Matthew 28:18 all authority in heaven is


given unto me because Jesus in his death


burial and resurrection I've told you


over the years is the one who defeated


principalities and powers


all authority in heaven and earth is


given unto me. So it is not your prayer


but the work of Jesus. So that's why we


use the word reclaiming the nation


because in his death, burial and


resurrection, he wrought a victory which


is the same Colossians chapter 2 so that


you get the context that same Colossians


number two tells us and having spoiled


principality and powers is the same


place Abby that's verse 15. So there is


a context of the writing.


So they use that word elemental because


we'll come to that and in order for it


not to look spooky again because when


you hear that word spirit you start


thinking ah so something's whispering to


my ear is as easy as look at the


fundamental rudiment of this world now


that people live by


you have to look out for yourself oh you


have to look out for yourself cuz nobody


has your time in this life it is now a


principle that allows people to be


selfish


that it for it to be so once an ideology


is very powerful and widespread is not


good thinking. It's not good thinking


that is powering it. It is that


elemental spirit. It's the same thing I


I've given you when I was teaching on


sin forces where once you hear give in


church there's an not yeah of course we


don't do that nonsense here that power


is broken over this place but in many


place when people don't hear that word


give they get angry but when they in the


shopping mall they don't get angry that


they buying something that's the same


money as he spending but once you just


hear let's


nonsense no because the the prince of


the power the those elemental forces are


breathing on people and it's looking


like it's normal idea. The same way the


10 spies different from the two Joshua


and Caleb look like they were talking


clearhead. We saw the sons of Anch the


giant descendants of the giants and we


were in their sight as and were in our


own sight. It's enough that you were in


their sight.


So de and that was demorali demoralizing


effect that Israel could not make any


progress that God say they said no


remove so God say okay amen what you


want since all of you have said you will


enter the promised land all of just die


for this wilderness not like god is


angry god is giving them what they want


which is what the rot of god mean the w


of god is god allowing the consequence


of your action have effect on you


because god can save you from your wrong


con from your your wrong decisions but


if you say don't save me from my wrong


decision we allow it because god allow


allows man's will come to pass because


that's why he made man with will


and man knowing that his will can put


him in trouble is why he needs a savior


is common these are the common sense


reason why man knows that he must have


somebody he defers to save me for myself


sometimes because I don't always choose


what is right so the prophet Jeremiah


10:23 say it is not in man that live to


direct himself it's not in man because


there will


many of those mistakes. That's why we


cry unto God, help me, I think I've done


something that can lead to something


else. Then he says, chill. I have you


covered.


As much as he wanted us to have taken


his wisdom, but he can also shield us


from those things. And what is called


the wrath of God is not God working in


the flesh. God does not have anger


issues. The w of God is seen in man's


action, not in God's action. It's not


God that has the action. It's man that


have the action. So


just like the foolishness of God, God is


not foolish. Now the foolishness of God


is seen in man's action. Man that calls


that thing. So he says it looks like


he's not wise but he's wise. So that


wroth of God which I've explained to you


when we taught on walking salvation in


all the earth is not


a vengeful angry God. No is God give


Romans chapter one. Everywhere you see


that word of God it comes on train of


disobedience. God allowing the


consequence of your choice have an


effect on you because you that's


obviously what you want. That's


obviously what you said you wanted and


you have already said God leave me


alone. He should honor your choice. Papa


always used to say this statement and I


didn't used to get it then. He said God


will protect your rights even your right


to go to hell. I like


what kind of statement is that? But I'm


seeing it true and true every day


because that's because if God can stop a


man's will should have stopped Adam


until you realize that your will is


a sing one of the singular greatest


force on this earth. How you use your


will, you will know to use it for God


and use it in the line and in the


purposes of God. If not


now lost, you lost. Amen. So notice in


that uh numbers 13 verse 33 down where


they were saying ah we are not able we


not we not be able to go over the land


where cannot the giants and all of that


Joshua Caleb stealed the people and said


let us go up at once for they has bread


for us. Chapter 14. God now said, "Where


is that Caleb? Bring him out." He said,


"For there was a different spirit."


Uhhuh. Spirits. I thought everybody was


just giving their own perspective. There


is nothing like perspective that does


not have breath. For a perspective to be


widespread, it is a breath that is


behind the perspective. Once you see


once you see a widespread the same way


people say, notice there's no anti- good


antichrist. Nobody has an issue if you


say God who get your time. But when you


just say Jesus, everybody gets angry


because there is a breath against Jesus.


Anything Jesus Christ anything Christ


Jesus ah


you can write Buddha down on your shirt


and just be walking. Nobody ever just


ignore it. Write Jesus Christ on your


shed boat. Huh? But this is not fair


now. Why will somebody be going like


this? Is this how to wear cloth? Is this


what you should write on your clothes?


you in fact Krishna


nobody will stop you


because that is not what the battle of


the ages is about. The battle of the the


contention of the ages is not about


Buddha. Neither is he about


Confucious and all of the other many


ideologies or faith that exist in the


world. The contention is about Jesus


Christ because God has horizon appointed


a day which he will judge the world by


that man Christ Jesus. That is where the


conflict is. That is where the issue is.


And so anything that has J Sus


Jesus Christ ah


don't want to hear it. It's just like


you have look for trouble. So there's


that hostility and there are many of


such ideologies.


There are many of such ideologies that


have a breath behind it. The same way


when people hear honor, look at the


anger. They want to manipulate. They


want to want to manipulate me. But if


you are honoring them, there's no issue.


But once is somebody else you are


honoring. Oh, they have manipulated


them. This is human worship.


There's a lot of anger that the Bible


says in the last days


men shall be unthankful, ungrateful,


haters of fathers and mother. So the


spirit of the age of this timeline, this


aon this cycle of time is against honor


and people thinking it's just it's just


the way I see things. I like to speak by


mind.


you are under that breath


and many times that's what again because


we like to separate it that ah but I not


do anything now how can I be under any


breath is which one is heaven and which


one is seen and unseen I beg I did not


do I'm just there as long as you are in


the word you are already sandwiched


between sin and unseen


because the word again that's why I told


you beware of that idea of heaven as a


planet away from the The world has


heaven and earth dimension. And I told


you in many of those regions that we


were doing from last year, see the world


that there are two dimensions to life.


the


ordinary


human


dimension of living or that's what we


say earthly dimension of living or the


other worldly


O T H E R O W O R L D L Y the other


worldly dimension hidden the other


worldly hidden


which you can put on scene if you like


dimension of the ordinary life so I can


switch into that. So h this thing is


looking I can switch into the other


worldly dimension of the same life and I


will get this thing done.


>> Since I use this dimension, it did not


work. Why? Because how did God make man?


Genesis 2:7 God breatheed into man the


breath of life and man became a living


soul. So a living soul is two component.


A living soul is physical the dust from


the ground and the breath of life that


the essence that comes from God which we


call spirit. So every man has physical


and spiritual component and you choose


and don't see it as like they are


separated. They are not separated. They


are together.


Are you following? So every day there


are ideologies being shaped like that.


And that's why we need more Christians


to to be loud with our ideologies and


viewpoints.


be loud with your godliness and your


your your your


Christian stance


so that it can spread more and become a


normal way people think


because most people still don't know


that the origins of charities was


Christian virtues or what godly virtues


over the years that made charity a


common thing that say charity


organization that is not looking like


normal even the devil have latched on to


it now When did the devil like that


taking care of anybody? It has become a


normal devil take care of somebody. Ah


no but okay you guys can take care of so


now find way to see hijack that one now


taking care of people is now done with a


selfish intention not because you love


may be then it went further now it means


to launder money just pass it through an


NGO.


So it's no longer what it is. So he says


beware remember we're teaching biblical


perspective of life.


So lest any man spoil you, take you


captive.


So what are we being captured by? This


is shocking. We are being captured by


wisdom. But this wisdom isn't founded on


truth. Instead, it's founded on human


tradition and a demonic system of


belief. Are you seeing it? Oh, demonic


has shock you.


A devilish. So is there something like


that? Look at James.


see that there's every day we have this


and people call this I know what I'm


thinking I know what I'm thinking nobody


can tell me we can actually tell you sir


we can tell you they blow on top of your


head say we cannot tell you we can tell


you you are not thinking well


James chapter 3 verse 13 to 18 who is a


wise man


and endued with knowledge pledge among


you. Let him


let him show out of a good conversation


his works with meekness of wisdom. So a


wise person or a person of understanding


will let it show by his good conduct.


Abby and that good conduct is deeds done


in humility.


Meekness of wisdom deeds done in


humility. That is the kind of wisdom.


His wisdom is allows him to be meek,


humble. But if he have bitter envying,


now this is normal way people think. If


he have bitter envying and strife in


your heart, glory not and lie not


against the truth,


that's envy. Bitter envying, bitter


jealousy, selfish ambition, that's the


word strife.


Do not boast in it. Do not use it to


deny the truth which people do. Don't


boast in it. This is just the kind of


person I am to see me. I don't try. I


the worst part like this. Don't boast in


it. Don't want you to deny the truth.


Say forget that thing you are saying.


You don't know what I'm going through.


Don't deny the truth because of your


experience. Don't deny the truth because


you want to hold on to unforgiveness.


Say forget say ah


you have not been hurt. Sh. Don't deny


the truth.


Don't cuz you can do nothing against the


truth but for the truth because last


time we still come back to that truth


but you would have hurt many other


persons because your actions I've used


that word hot people


noted people hot people it's correct


English people that have been hot people


because it's now a ripple effect.


Amen. And that's why misery loves


company. Always know it. So that you


never are sucked into because it's like


a suction. Don't be sucked into that


misery loves company. Who are other


people that are miserable like me? Let


us identify. No, no, no. We are not


doing that here. We are not binding


together for for darkness. We bind


together for light.


No, no, no, no, no. So if you have


bitter envy


and strife, strife that's that rivalry,


selfishness, that's selfishness that is


rivalry


like you are rigging election


partisanship.


So it's rivalry.


So do not boast in it. Do not lie


against the truth. Don't slander the


truth because of that. Now


then he now says


this wisdom is shocking as this wisdom


this wisdom because this is some


people's wisdom this wisdom descended


not from above so there's a wisdom am I


talking about wisdom


Christian perspective of life which is


Christian philosophy of life


this wisdom descended not from above


then gives you is earthly, sensual, and


devilishly. So, there's an earthly


wisdom. There's a sensual wisdom and


there's a devilish wisdom. Then he says,


in case you did not get it, for


for where envying and strife,


for where envy and strife is, there is


confusion and every evil work.


So thinking bad things about people,


living life predominantly with


selfishness, without rivalry, what is


called bitter envy, jealousy.


It says there is confusion.


Is that chaos? Is that disorder?


>> And every evil work, you see you will


see evil practices.


So there's confusion, disorder.


But the wisdom that is from above is


first pure.


The wisdom that is from above is first


pure.


Is clean, chasteed, innocent. That's the


word pure.


Then peaceable


it brings peace with it. Gentle.


The word gentle there is the word is


appropriate. Whereas you use the word


equitable


is appropriate.


Easy to be treated.


It is easy to comply.


You just you can tell that ah this is


the easy thing now. This is this one is


easier. The other one is looking harder.


It it comes it has an easy persuasion.


It's easy to be treated, easy to comply


with,


full of mercy


and good fruits,


without partiality,


without hypocrisy.


Now is hypocrisy not some people's style


of wisdom is partiality and they won't


call it wisdom they just they won't even


call it hypocrisy it's just how they do


their things you know there are persons


that have mastered how other person


should live their life and their life is


a mess


where Paul used that word busy bodies of


other people's matters


improve yourself you will not improve


but you know how many have not improved


improve themsel you know they improve


yourself. is like everything is about


people people people is all of them are


all children of the same father and


mother low self-esteem everything d that


list


low self-esteem oh there is an enter


proverbs gives us the entourage of


foolishness and the entrage of wisdom


there are plenty things along the trail


plenty things that following it in the


convoy since the enter does not work for


you convoy


there are plenty things in the some


people can't everything is


But blessing to be smarter than you. Are


you smarter than this? You


get


I don't know why somebody doesn't know


that kind of thing and you don't know


it.


You always your work is to be picking


people part by part. You know they


improve. You work on yourself. I choose


to be better. I choose. Of course, we


are not saying that you have to be


morally upright or perfect in your


actions


which is uh uh must be properly


underlined several times when we say


perfect because perfection


has more than one meaning. So when we


say there's perfection that cannot be


found with anything created because in


that sense it does not have


in possession of the attribute and the


exercise of the attribute anything


created cannot be the same way like the


who created it. So in that sense it


cannot be perfect and this has to do


with it's not morality is that for


example I lack strength


I forget something that I need to do


that's already shown you are not perfect


there is you see that I am not the


creator if we come together then I can


do but God does not need combination God


does not need let's be two so that this


thing will work no


he's perfect in the exercise of his


attribute


he's completely


good completely not I'm good seven years


then one month unstable no you can never


see God in one moment being unstable one


moment uh he falters no consistently


true all the way for every attribute so


don't just thinking to morality no no no


far beyond that so it's in that sense


that we use that word nobody is perfect


so that that's also become your


philosophy of life nobody's perfect


you're using to be evil and demonic no


it's In that sense, now there is how he


has perfected us in Christ Jesus. That


means we are complete in what Christ has


done. So nothing is lacking in who the


man in Christ is before God. God sees us


as we are and as we should accepted in


the beloved, we are perfected. Hebrews


10:10 and Hebrews 10:14. For by one


offering he has perfected forever them


that are sanctified.


So he has sanctified us. He has


perfected us. So that perfect there is


to arrive at the journey. So


I am trying to get to Canada on bicycle


that is not perfect.


It may look like you will but now that


be that. So the law could not bring us


to that end. But what the law could not


do Christ Jesus in his deadbearation has


done. He has perfected. He has done the


work. So the synonymous words used in


Hebrew to explain the work of Christ.


Better, perfect,


more excellent. They are all similar


because they speak of accomplishment.


They are all synonyms of accomplishment.


So a task has been accomplished. So when


he says we are perfect, that's the


second use of the word perfect in the


Bible. Now Bible words have Bible


meaning not the one you think. Are you


are you with me? Then the third use of


the word perfect is when you use the


word for mature


to present every man perfect in Christ


Jesus. Mature in Christ Jesus for the


perfecting of the saints. Ephesians 4.


The same thing Colossians 1:28


to present every man perfect in Christ.


That's mature. The same thing he says


about doctrine. Second Timothy chapter 3


remember verse 16 and 17. All scriptures


given by of God is probably for doctrine


for reprove for correction for right


that the man of God may be that the man


of God may be perfect thoroughly


furnished unto every good work. So


that thing is with the mature for the


time you ought to be teachers. You have


that someone teach you again what be the


first principles. So maturity is also


that's a third use of the word perfect.


The fourth use of the word perfect be


perfect even as your heavenly father is


perfect. Now that is choosing to act


like the lord even when it is looking


difficult or and that's where we


bringing conduct which I don't like that


word morality. one day people will


apprehend why I change how I use some


words like I don't use the word free


will because of my many interactions


with uh intellectuals highly intelligent


people of other faith especially my uh


uh contributions to answering questions


of that atheists and agnostics ask you


put yourself in trouble using some of


those phrases because of course we know


what it means but it when people hear


those words there's something that they


think so because of what people think


when they hear some words is reason why


I don't use instead of saying free will


just say man has will man has choice of


course not because the word free will is


wrong because of if we are really free


then I should be free to that's not how


freedom is defined you already given


freedom another definition other than


normal meaning of freedom


are we good


>> so that word moral because you can be


moral without Jesus Christ That's why


morality is in every religion. That's


why we say and people don't understand


when they say all these great scriptures


have come again. That's why I say


morality is not the gospel. People say


ah no you can't tell me but there's


conduct. Morality and conduct. Morality


is principles and rules that I use.


That's why it's called ethics. Ethics is


the foundation of society. So principles


and laws that I use to ensure that I


live right


so that I can behave right so that I can


do what is right. Now all of that is


what you can do without Christ Jesus and


not be God's man.


When a Christian boast about uh where


you see this kind of wisdom um I like it


but it's pushed beyond proportion.


And they they teach these things like


laws. You'll be wondering


men should counsel men. Women should


counsel women. Where did you get that


idea from? I get the point.


Why not tell that to Jesus? I remember


when somebody said that to me and I use


Jesus for the say ah well we are not


Jesus. What about Paul?


What about Peter?


We are always coming up with principles


that do not allow us to be trusting in


the power of God's spirit. Say you are a


morally damaged creature. Say that you


are a child of lust and perversion and


don't bring it to everybody. Be able to


I mean we need that sincerity where the


pastor say I have a problem. I have a


problem with women. If you leave me with


your sister something will happen. Let's


know. Don't be teaching emphatically


your weakness on people.


Don't be teaching it like that. All of


us are not mad like you sir. All of us


are not mad like you man. Don't


generalize.


You have slept on me.


>> Because you are using it now as a


conclusion. This is how that's not how


it is. There's nowhere in the Bible


because now you will soon have ministry


for only one gender. So only the male


should talk to the male. Go and try that


in some regions now where men are


sleeping with men. I be you don't know


that too.


You know where we always trying to look


for things to escape. I be men don't


sleep with men. Women sleep with women


too. Now stop now. This is 2025.


So how does that fly?


How does that fly? You think it's only


male that sleep with female and female


sleep with male. Male also sleep with


male. Female also sleep with female. So


how did that counseling technique work?


Now don't use arm of flesh.


>> Yes sir.


I can never carry a woman in my car.


Some they do where they get all these


laws add and drain. Now we bring them to


church to come and do to come and teach


us


walk in the spirit and shall not fulfill


the laws of the flesh.


Your power to do right is not from


principles.


Over time those principles must fail.


And only way those principles will if


the principles do not fail it means you


are not properly representing Christ


because if you are going to properly


represent Christ the principles will


fail and how you know you're not


properly representing Christ you can't


be God's man everywhere.


So the day God says two of you go around


that br and preach. Ah what people say


you you always use your what people say


to hinder. The day God say stand for


that man who is a thief. You say how can


I stand for a thief? Hey hey hey what


people say? Did they because your


morality will always come in the way of


youth being God's man.


Yes sir. Ah,


enter that beer pal. Ah, what if they


snap a picture now? And so they snap the


picture. Did I go there to drink?


There's always that fear. So there are


certain obedience you will have. Certain


obedience you will not have because


nothing should tamper my morality code


because


that is where we have an issue with the


word morality because you can be moral


without Jesus Christ.


That's why salvation is not morality


because a man can be moral without Jesus


Christ


and even that one question mark there


ah that is is in the areas of strength


oh because look at the man who boast uh


let anybody cry out if I've ever done


anything to any woman in this world you


may not have but I have people who have


everybody's coming from different place


sir


everybody's coming from place and people


have had struggle maybe because you are


ugly that's why nobody have your time or


maybe because you are because we must


always be stating the the evidences so


is it may have an issue to do with


something else it's like an ugly lady


said nobody no man ever ask me out they


will not ask you out now say I have not


stayed with any man would you have been


who would want to sleep with you they


will not want to now you not the first


person no I'm not trying to put anybody


the point I'm making is where it becomes


an arrogance


>> are you really Sure people are really


hing you or you you are you have not


been hired. If you have been hired you


will know


don't hear defenses. Is there anything


wrong in making that kind of statement?


No. Samuel made such a statement but he


should make it for other attributes too


because Samuel did not make it for one


make it for every other thing. Say you


have never been proud sir. Even the way


you are preaching we can see the pride


cuz you are a custom officer.


We can see the pride that is exhibit.


This is a work of the flesh. It doesn't


you don't even need to be matured to see


the work of the flesh in how you don't


need to be mature to see it.


Wishing death on another pastor. Oh, let


the glory days come back and let all


these pastors that are preaching grace


die.


This is the this is the moral man. This


is the good man. So that's why when we


bring all things before God, we begin to


see all men the way they are.


Everybody have their areas of great


strength. Everybody has the everybody


has those areas maybe because of


bringing bad lifestyle exposure


or fantasies that see if you are in the


business of molding people you will see


different things.


>> That's what you people say as a person


I'm not shocked. where you say have you


heard what that person did he shocked me


say shock it not shock me it's a human


being all this shock that you are


shocked that's why Galatians says ye


which are spiritual restore such a one


in the spirit of meekness not pride


>> not all this bravado this pride I can


never I can do it is God that is helping


me not to do it there's nothing bad I


cannot do


>> yes sir yes sir


>> is God that is helping me not to be


doing it until that that must be some


people have never lived by the power of


God's spirit which God will judge them


for. They will lose all their reward.


Every good work they did on the earth


they will be burnt because it was never


powered by God's spirit. It was always


I'm smart. I'm smart. I'm smart. No,


it's not smartness. It is the spirit of


God that produces godliness. Every


godliness you produce by principles and


laws did not come from God's spirit. It


is the spirit of God.


Joseph did not say no to Portifer


because of this principle is because of


the Lord. That's why I say how can I do


this great wickedness against the Lord


and against my master is because of the


fear of God is not because can that fear


of God now be interpreted as principles


not worldly principles.


>> I teach people how to break a habit in a


twinkle of an eye and people say ah it's


it's not easy to break it's easy to


break any habit. Any habit can be broken


except the one you don't want to be


broken but if you want it to be broken


is to habits can be broken because you


you are not bound by any of those things


lay claim to the power you have in


Christ Jesus and you see the power of


that evil shatter


it will shatter out so


how did I get here morality okay


beautiful so morality has many meanings


that People want to give it. So people


are more you say I know one Buddhist


that never done bad. I know one Muslim


person. Everybody only know one person


that never done bad. You live in their


house. Don't be silly. You say you know


somebody have never done any bad thing


and he's drawing breath. How old is he?


Is he five? What do you think is bad?


Thank you. Because we are always using


our definitions of good and evil.


>> We are using our own definition of good


and evil. Our own definitions of good.


How many times did we see people do


things that seemingly look good but was


not good? It is good that we make that


Jesus say is not good.


It is good or you will not die. You will


not die or you will not die. Even that


one is that Jesus should not die.


Everybody know it's good not to die. But


in this context was good to die.


That's why I say you who are you to


that's when that man called Jesus good


master. I said who are you to define


goodness? You don't do you know what


good mean? Okay. The man said, "I've


done everything for my from my mother's


womb. I've been keeping all the laws."


So you sell all that you have. The very


first just Jesus first attempt


to to to prodd him


he fell. He Bible say he left so wful.


Bible say because he was a very rich


man. That one serve God. That one he was


a worshipper of mmon and he came


proudful to the Lord. I've kept


everything


sad left sorrowful


because he was very rich is that one his


trust is not in God and yet I've kept


it. Look at somebody has been kept


kepting I've been keeping it. Ah


from my I've I've kept everything the


same way all of the people


that held those stones that we had at


the lady but we can't find the man.


ready to stone in John chapter 8 just


one it's only one question that Jesus


bring Jesus does not use two words just


one which of you is without sin


everybody drop stone just


I really do like that you're not really


serious like that not serious like this


everybody start doing my not serious


like this is it the seriousness of your


own so our power to correct moral


failures is not because we have not done


it


I used to be a very proud stupid person.


I used to be a very proud and stupid


person in that regard because of how I


was raised. I mean I can tell you never


never never. I can give you many never


never never never ever. We don't have to


fail to now lend grace. We don't have to


fail to now realize that human power is


is horrible. We don't have to don't make


experience the best teacher


because I knew the the the principles


that were instilled in me growing up.


Don't


make say how can how could somebody do


something like that. Ah people are doing


things how it's by the grace of God that


you're not doing it. S


not


I can never see myself doing that. You


have not finished all your life on the


earth side. We don't yet know what you


can do


by the grace of God by the power of


God's spirit. I'm helped. I'm enabled.


So then this kind of message now anybody


that is angry is a wicked soul


it offends the far mind because they


have because for them they have seven


good they have seven sins only seven


once you don't do those seven you are


okay the same five is sadistic mentality


that finds a way to make


doing good


a set of rules and imposition which is


not good and evil should always be by


God's spirit and by his word and his


word and his spirit agree. So we know ah


this thing is against love. How many


things have you done that are against


love


or you don't know that that sadness is a


work of the flesh? You are and you are


predominantly sad. This is a moral man.


What is the morality in sadness?


You are shocked. So morality your


morality is not sadness too. How is


unhappiness moral? What is the ethical


goodness to sadness? Now you have robbed


all of us. All of us now want to run and


leave the house because of you. Of what?


Where is the love in that now that you


have spread it on all of us? All of us


now are sad because you were sad. You


have to project your your your sadness


on other persons without knowing that


you apologize. You explain to people


that don't be don't look at my


countenance. I'm just dealing with


something. You'll be spreading it


lashing out on everybody. Is that not is


that where where's the morality there?


Where is the morality of losing your


patience


that you cannot wait for things? I need


it now. No, no, no, no, no. Can you not


be faster than this?


You are quiet. See that we have found a


way to be are they not other works of


the flesh? Yes, sir.


Where is your longsuffering?


Don't Don't have seven.


I don't lie. I don't steal. I don't


forget. The only one that change name


three times


adultery or change his name.


I don't. So once you have the seven,


it's seven.


Once you have those seven which h pride


is used as the ending and the people


that use pride as number one are fraud


say you know uh uh


let's beware of


of pride.


I'm here to worship my maker. I I


remember a lady did this to me some


years ago and I I really humbled her


because I wanted to follow her because I


praised her before she came up and she


came up and said I really don't know how


to sing. I have a horrible voice but God


is helping me. So when I when she


finished singing I came back up. I said


can we celebrate that lady who has a


horrible voice who God is helping. She


was sad.


She was sad. This is a moral person.


They deceive people saying now good


person be this wicked soul anger after


that day I could never invite her again


I mean this is many years ago you know


I've been around for some time could


never use her for anything again within


that cycle of influence I had then


she said she I I did not know that


there's what you call force humility


that one I was past pride it's just


better to be proud than that one I this


vessel of clay I hear I I really took


her for a word. I felt like oh wow I


said say I said you know I have a


horable voice. It is not about me it's


about my God.


I followed her like that as I came back


I to I mentioned what she said he called


the pina.


So it was just you know I'm not good but


I'm good. No sir. We don't used to lie


to say truth.


>> No sir. No sir. No sir. No sir. We don't


you no that's his false humility sir


he didn't say don't think of yourself


say don't think of yourself more highly


than you ought to that means don't have


an exaggerated opinion of yourself he


didn't say have no opinion of yourself


that one can be also low self-esteem can


be false humility and low self-esteem


you have no opinion of yourself I think


I'm a nobody let's fill you up with


God's word you are something sir


no so are you following So he say be ye


perfect even as your heavenly father. So


in other words we learn from God right


steps. So which is where Ephesians


chapter 2 now says we were created unto


good works pre-ordained onto good works


which God created us in Christ Jesus to


walk in. We are his workmanship


po we are his work of act a masterpiece.


So there are orchestrated part which is


why we now walk in the spirit and walk


in the light. Good works which God


before ordained that we should walk in


them.


>> Amen.


>> Amen.


>> So you see the word good works used


again in titles.


It says good works are for good uses. So


they say because there's what we use


good works to do. Yeah it has. If not


people what kind of Christian is this


one? He says a Christian. He say so your


good works obviously matter your conduct


matter but don't use that word morality


and I understand what people mean but


you get why I don't like using that word


morality just call it good works it's


far better nothing wrong in using the


word good works because there's good


works that come by the spirit of God


that come from salvation


there are many gurus


many of the hermit and monks that are


living a better holy life than all those


people who boast like that cuz you boast


about having to do with a woman. Many


people can boast they not even married.


You married


there's always somebody that can go


deeper than you.


You say I've never stolen money. I've


never seen money safe.


You


I've never seen money because it's an


aesthetic life. They live in isolation


to every other thing


hand to mouth. They have to be giving


everything that they need. So if they


bring a food to the temple, that's the


only one that they eat. But they will go


hungry for days.


There are people like you. Have you seen


Have you seen conduct? Have you seen


morality? You will run. H


they cannot buy clothes. They cannot.


They have never bought anything. There


are people on different caves. The same


spirit of a cave dweller that they want


to have.


Different people living on literal


caves.


Not because of lack of development. I


mean developed places but because of


their spiritual devotion.


Called monks, priests and gurus.


Different names they call them in


different religions they have more


observances than you can ever think of.


Ah


they you have even you are eating


chicken. They cannot no animal can be


hot.


The morality you reach there that do not


kill you have to do with animal too


because they call it everything is


killing mother. No, it's mother that is


the issue there that Exodus 20 not


not kill that's why society have killing


as part of judgment sentencing


ah yes now so kill is not the issue it's


more that is the issue that desire to


which is the violence of taking another


man's life


not animal for god's sake but we


understand but you see where holiness


reach they will kill animal no Holy


vegetables only fruit vegetarian


you have not seen holiness now you will


see it but it stings


that's the type Jesus explained and they


pass all they saw a man injured they did


not touch him except the good Samaritan


remember Samaritans are not good people


>> the Jews used to run from them but that


why that one is called a good Samaritan


the Samaritan was passing just say who


is my that was the way was teaching love


your neighbor as yourself then they


asked Who is my neighbor? Then Jesus


told them a parable. It was when they


said who is my neighbor? Say love your


neighbor. The disciples as who is even


this my neighbor? My neighbor is


somebody the next house my my neighbor


is anybody and everybody I have daily


interactions with that is my neighbor.


And he used that good Samaritan. That is


morality artist.


Are you following?


It's not the same moral people that kill


Jesus


that can observe the Pharise mind. To


them, grace is candalous.


It's can it's like ah it's too much


until you show them that kind of mercy.


Wickedness.


But if it's them, you show that kind of


mercy. Ah


ah I really did not deserve this great


mercy and kindness that was showed to me


but nobody else you show that same great


kindness to hallelujah


>> so Colossians 2 back to our Colossians 2


did you get the James chapter 3 so


there's a wisdom that is earthly sensual


and devilish James 3:15 and they say if


you have beta invenance so there's this


wisdom


so there's wisdom like this that is


earthly


That is sensual. That is all about me.


Me me me me me me me me me me me me me


me me me me me me me me me me me me me




me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me me me me me me


me me me me me me me me me me me me me




me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me me me me me me me me me me


me me me me me me me me me me me me me




me me me me me me me me me me me me me
me me me me


that is all natural


that's the word sensual that is all


about naturalism


then there's wisdom that is devilish and


people buy into devilish wisdom


one of the most common devilish wisdom


is mob action. Have you seen mob action


before? Hey


every mob will just attack somebody and


meanwhile the person you know sent to


one person one person many people have


lost their lives like that mob action


everybody just say the same way people


said they will not eat or drink until


they kill Paul


what did Paul do


other people they say they bound themsel


by an oath


is there is that that


Say the masses


what happen over there say


you not verify you already stone mob


action it's the greatest one of the most


subto satanic influences in in in


wasting people


yeah you find out that it's not true we


already light fire without verifying


that's why be careful how you run with


the crowd


on certain informations


for in every rumor there is element of


truth. You have not seen rumor. Ah you


have not seen rumor. What about the


rumor about Jesus? None was true. Born


of fornication he was not a wine baba


and a drunkard. All the rumors about


Jesus none of them were true. That alone


should tell you that come say you know


in everyone there's element of truth.


You know he never reach your papa house.


When you near your friends you will know


that not every rumor is true. There are


people that are raised up at a time like


this. Hell raised them up to contend


against your soul.


They will leave a bit longer. You will


get you will see it


lie. You say you have come now. All


right. Finally, everybody come with


their evidences.


Ghost.


Anybody can say things now to to score


points.


People can say anything. Ah people can


say it and later upon verification they


find that it's a lie but people say I


will I will disgrace you. You think you


can I will show you then start because


people always looking for sweet gist.


Give me your old side of the story. No


no no no no no no no.


You cannot conclude without hearing the


other side and many times cry out they


correct and that's not how God judges


and that's not how a believer even


should judge. So we are to judge nothing


by his appearance. That's what puts uh


Joseph in prisoner


was the first to cry out now


say see now my government is not with me


so it's obvious that he did something to


me but he did not do anything to her and


if not that we have the background story


in the Bible would you have known who


would have believed? Who would have


believed? Nobody would have believed


Joseph because he was suffering in


prison for what he did not do. That is


life for you. People have suffered for


what they did not do. They were just in


the wrong place at the wrong time.


Hallelujah.


>> Then people have also suffered because


of their own wrongdoing.


People have suffered because of


persecution. Peter says


you must know the two. They suffering


for persecution. I'm suffering for your


own wrongdoing. That one is not


persecution. Baba suffer.


Amen.


>> Amen.


>> So see to it that no one takes you


captive by philosophy and empty deceit.


So the captor here is what we are being


captured by wisdom. So always know what


wisdom is at work in your life.


It says holo rhetoric or outright lies


which becomes which that word why he


call it elemental the word stokon is now


a basic assumption we use for our


thinking that's that's why it's element


stokon is now a basic assumption so


that's how you basically live that is


your if you see a baby falling will you


instinctively stretch your hand stepped


up your mama you everybody every normal


normal people not the nor again every


normal human being is quickly to rescue


you will not you don't need to think


should I should I should I not the baby


land oh he died ah they will say


heartless so it's instinctive you can't


be it's not Indian


ah Ah


the thing will the baby will pause there


while then you remember you take drink


where are you running to then when you


finally get there


ah no this is not this is not Bollywood


it's real life


and you know your mind is renewed when


you act before you think those are


instinctive thinking that is now what


does a basic is like your default


default mode.


So there are some persons when I hear oh


this person have done I say it's default


that's worrying we need to break those


default the ax is to the root put the ax


to the root we change them with the


pluck leave we deal with the where the


they come from


there where these things are coming from


where say people don't change ah I can't


be a preacher if I believe that kind of


stupid philosophy that people don't


change people change. That's why you are


here. You are a Christian. How did you


get born again if people don't change?


Be careful what you believe as a


Christian. Say people don't change.


People don't change. No. But but can


change be slow? Yes. Can change be very


gradual? Yes. But people change. But


change can be slow.


Ah yeah. And change can also be fast.


It's depending on what you hold on to.


So are there anti-spiritual standpoints


to life? Yeah. Anti-spiritual


conclusions. What are your conclusions?


What are your stand points? What are


your basic assumptions that you use for


thinking?


What are your preconceived notions?


There are many have been taken captive


by


Christian kind of like philosophy wrong


doctrine


God will never hear your prayer that


people today they cannot ah


sorry get a scarf I'm about to pray


it is now they cannot you just have to


just just remove the table cover


we must quickly because their prayers


not going to be answered


then you imagine we have women praying


in the Bible and we didn't see their


head covered you just use one this is


laziness then we start talking say what


do you know how many years have you live


ah so want to be doing years you might


go die say h


I


am the pilot


I am 128 years old. We only use old


people to fly plane. I wanted to be


older than everybody on this plane. Why?


Before they enter runway, come down. Oh,


don't trust any autopilot.


128 years. That's why they retired them.


say uh doctor I'm uh 92 years and


there's an operation that uh I want you


to do for me say oh I'm young I'm just


25 so we have a a surgeon


a surgeon hand they shake


114 years let's call him for you they


must be older than you to treat you and


they s just stab your heart


He leave the knife inside.


I left the knife inside the heart. I say


let's call for this. It must be


everything that you the same. The driver


said ah there's an old woman that's also


entering this bus to Lagos. Say how old


is she? She say she's 98. Ah


motors


there is this there's this person we


know. He does not drive anymore, but


it's a legend in the art of driving.


He's 182


cuz he must be older than


he's driving on his body. Remember that


I'm supposed to trying to match to


everybody


wrote clear


into the forest cuz they must be older


than you. But that does not work for


money. If I even my son now you say he's


pastor everyone not trust pastor son


he's wise he's wise he's wise just give


that my first I pack dollars for him


$100 note I say be sharing for people


will not say it's a child


say it's your dad I be it's your dad


no there are people that supposed to say


uh-uh he didn't steal his father's money


no people know what they are doing when


life matters they don't use age


>> when they want to be naughty. They'll be


doing age say that's why some pastors


say ah


someone say


ah that pastor is young go


bishop was not young too which of the


pastors you like today that were not


young and this young you know how many


years we have been doing ministry are


you are getting old you we are not


getting old because you go wear suffer


for face now don't be everybody wants to


be wearing suffer we must all not look


our age because we intend to live long.


S


I've seen people that are not up to


like 25 years. I didn't know. I thought


you was 32.


I always used to a power


that a small boy people that


[Music]


look younger than your sa there's no


glory in old age. He renews my age.


Renews my youth.


Abby


>> let God renew my youth. I beg


they go see that 50 year old woman they


oppress people for gym.


Nothing wrong to be looking young


forever young.


Is that not human pursuit? There's no


human being.


So but we have ah that philosophy people


have weird ones.


What about Deborah? Her head was not


covered. She was praying. What about


Miriam? And Miriam written upon the


scarf. Uhhuh.


We don't even need to use that same


coincidence. So in the same place the


verses after I say we have no such


custom, no not in any of the churches.


But you took it as a custom your own


church. You want suffer your people.


They suffer them.


and say uh you know uh for me


one not tied the glory of God does not


even nature teach that a woman has long


hair is a covering. So even the hair on


the hair already is a covering for the


headcept


you go babolo


then that text can now work for you.


>> Amen.


>> Amen. Amen.


>> So that's how we think.


>> Hallelujah.


>> So there are philosophies that are not


Christ centered.


>> They are hollow and deceptive. So there


are ideologies that removes us from who


we are in Christ from what Christ has


done for us from the gospel from this


from the soundness of doctrine. Beware


of those kind of philosophies. So always


view your assumptions and your


thinkings, your wisdom


because philosophy is the love and the


pursuit of wisdom and knowledge. But


imagine that Colossians 2:8. How could


the pursuit of wisdom result in a


kidnapping result in you being taken


captive


to to rob and carry off as a prey as a


captive?


I don't want to be carried away from the


truth into slavery. Slavery true


philosophy.


Every day people are being carried


captive. They are slaves to ideologies


that they buy into.


Amen.


>> Amen.


So any philosophy that is not Christ


centered is bound to be hollow and


deceptive. The same Colossians 2 because


in verse three he say in whom are hid


all the treasures of wisdom and


knowledge.


That's in Christ. That's why it says are


not after Christ. So there are teachings


that are not after Christ.


See that word you have not so learned


Christ. There's a learning of Christ


that we receive.


There's a learning of Christ that we


receive.


Colossians 4


verse 17. This I say therefore and


testify in the Lord that ye henceforth


walk not as other Gentiles walk in the


vanity of their mind. Did you see it?


vanity, having the understanding


darkened, being alienated from the life


of God through the ignorance that is in


them because of the blindness of their


who been past


feeling have given themsel over unto


lasciviousness to walk all uncleaness


and greediness. But ye have not so


learned,


>> if so be that you have heard him and has


been taught by him, as the truth is in,


>> that you put off concerning the former


conversation, the old man which is


corrupt according to deceitful laws, and


be renewed in the spirit of your mind,


that you put on the new man, which after


God is created in righteousness and true


holiness. You see it?


So there's how we have learned Christ.


Now this Ephesians chapter 4 he even


says something you know we can counter


look at philosophies that counters.


Let no corrupt communication pose out of


your mouth. 29


you know there are people that say I


like to speak my mind. Make sure that


mind you have speaking you have renew it


first before you speak it.


Just I just I just like to speak my mind


just like


doing the NASA protest. Okay. How did


you pronounce it again?


>> It was trending. I speak my mind. People


were calling. Somebody call that his


father. Say daddy come out.


Everybody call speak out. Speak out.


Speak out.


He that callth his father and his mother


his light go off. It's not Old


Testament.


You think the angel will know that Old


Testament?


Which one is Old Testament? How is that


Old Testament? Honor your father, your


mother. That's say speak out. I said


they speak out. I thought there was


nothing. I felt like I was not loved


enough. Uhhuh.


But people have made renew your mind.


Matthew 18 say if you have an issue


against your brother they say um follow


me live on YouTube by 8:00 PM I will


drop the bomb


because we need to speak out follow Oh


no it's not YouTube Instagram


on Instagram I go live by 1000 p.m.


And people are actively waiting. The


same way they wait for the single man,


it soon go live. It soon go live. Being


programmed for h instability.


One place you say cancel him, cancel


another place say don't cancel him.


It's like the shaft, the wind that blow


all know what you stand for. People have


mentor say my mentor. I am a malian in


Christ Jesus.


What does that mean? Say we go without


belts.


We spike our dreams. We often are mad.


Whatsoever that means you say but in


Christ Jesus. There's nothing like that


in Christ Jesus.


Something like that in Christ Jesus.


Know where you stand.


Know where you stand.


doesn't mean that it's only Christians


that you would emulate or copy anything


from in society because there are people


that are because of your business


venture different end field but anything


that is against God that is coming from


them you you separate it you don't


endorse that or clap for that you should


know that and one of such is this one


here it says renew your mind don't just


say anything that knows don't just I


want to speak my to speak my mind don't


let cor from your mouth


Another one he mentions there is be not


angry and be angry and sin not. So in


other words, don't let anger lead to


sin. Don't let anger get to sin because


anger can come and it can go but don't


dwell on it and it now makes you do what


is wrong. So he gives the example let


the sun go down upon your rot. There are


people like this that hate peace.


Something will be in their mind and this


there are many wicked husbands and wife


in marriage. Marriage is one of the


place you see wickedness.


You are shocked. Yes. So


because you will see on because this is


close we are seeing on godly living.


That's why every teaching of


relationship will help you because that


thing we what we call wickedness is that


not wanting to live like a Christian.


There are husbands that don't like


peace. You don't know say they can be


doing memorial. This is two weeks now we


have not qu what's happening.


There are women that don't like peace


too.


If you know you want peace, why do you


sleep with anger? You deserve the evil


that is facing you. You use mouth to let


it be said that the person did not want


to reconcile. Why will you be know


people just like being sad, depressed?


Who did you who who who is winning now?


You have only destroyed yourself. You


will not have many assumptions. They not


love me. They don't love me. Which you


love love love again. Wrong meaning of


love. Because after thinking love is


wicked, you bring it to your philosophy.


For me, love is wicked. That's why you


are being wicked now. Now


because love is wicked. That's why you


are wicked.


That's why you are wicked. I put it to


you. You are a wicked man. Hey, wicked


woman.


No.


Decide. I tell people planning to get


married. Every time I get to counsel


them, people planning to get my I tell


them decide the kind of home you want. A


home of love, joy and peace. Anything


that is not for love, joy and peace.


Remove your hand. Wash your hand. Come


out. So that the day your wife is


bouncing the ring only she go day there.


Only she go. If it too bounce, just come


out. Come to my house. Come and sleep.


Don't bounce bounce bounce. Brock Lesnar


after you have bounced


WWE after you have bounced nobody follow


you because some people just want to


lead you into temptation


so that it will be said that as he say


just gave me header


flying header zan


he danned me there


no communicate


I felt like if I speak but did not


speak. So how would you know another


evil I felt what are you felting?


I felt like if I had spoken it may not


have liked you apologize forgive me for


the tone I'm using I may not be saying


this thing well but I feel like this


be communication


but I lie I what is it the joy of


sleeping angry


when you know how evil life is you know


how wicked elemental spirits are you go


Sleep with anger. The next day you will


not like what will come up


because you would have given it


interpretations.


[Music]


No. Now don't let the song go down your


rot. Always reconcile quickly on the


way.


Want the issue to die immediately.


There's living in peace like it. Don't


hate living in peace. It's not a bad


thing to live in peace. Amen.


>> Amen.


Like bishop said there's no way to say


and they will not step on each other.


Said to the man said we have been


sitting across each other now. I've not


matched your leg now. I'm not mad. I


should know where your leg is now. Say


you can't. There's no way two people


live together without step on each


other's toe. Say but we have been here


since 4 hours talking. I have not


stepped on your toe. Say oh oh


people have preconceived notions.


That's why everything that has to do


with people can live in peace and you


say never it's not possible it is


possible


is what people mean by the


interpretation of course that


interpretation he is not saying and I


believe so I really believe for him that


is his use of word I don't think he's


saying he and his spouse have never had


to drag on issues or no he's talking


about that war that they there's


contention that both of them are get out


get out of here can they have made up


their And it will never happen and you


cannot fight him. He's shouting it every


time. Hitch free. What you call history?


You you is he you are looking for


everybody should know what they are


looking for. Say no it's not possible.


Leave whether is possible or not


possible alone. What do you want in your


own home? Because that's the one that is


possible in your own home.


Every time you go one trer every time. I


will show you the kind of woman I am.


No, no, no. I will show you the kind of


man that I am. I'm a killer.


Truth are coming out. The truth is


coming out.


Oh, when I'm done with you, you will


know I escaped from psychiatric


hospital.


Is this how you see yourself?


Fresh from


know you know.


Amen.


>> Make up your mind.


I will do what God's word says. We live


by


some people always they make it's an


attempt to make you see that God's word


does not used to work. They enjoy it.


Peter says


women have used their chase conversation


to win the husband. a lie cannot tell me


cannot tell me that you think I'm a fool


that's because you're not a fool so


everything has packed up


all these unnecessary wisdom that we


want to have same way the man now crawl


on your on your on your on your on your


knees on your falls and come to me put


the bowl on your head because I'm a


traditional man we don't wash our hand


with our wives not on their kneesh


What do we do here?


Then you finish, you sprinkle it on our


eyes.


Go my lawful captive,


prisoner of war.


We talk. If you have an against your


brother, Matthew 18, he say go to him.


How much more husband and wife? How much


more friend and friend? You have not


spoken for 3 months. Because I feel I


feel which one they feel they fe they


feel they know they feel they talk I


feel I feel in my what I think in my


mind what I think in my mind you're


thinking in their mind


tell him to his face say if he will not


hear you come with somebody and it's


private resolution nowhere are we to go


live nowhere are we to have interviews


nowhere are we to use something to cover


their face they want to tell us


something that happened where they are


coming from you and them go and meet the


pastor don't be an agent of the devil


Say you are a therapist. Is that


biblical therapy or the rubbish you read


in school that is affecting you? These


are the apostles modern day apostles


covering their if you already brought


them why cover then you cover tattoo.


Everybody that know say that person


cover


face say you don't mean it. So who is


this edifying now you don't mean? So are


there Christians like that? Are there


churches like that? Are there pastors


like that? Are there fathers like that?


So what have we learned now? Who did not


know that these things happen in


society?


Say you want to go your YouTube channel


there. You want to go your YouTube


channel. You have seen that you are


following.


There's godliness and there's


ungodliness. The Bible is not silent on


interpretation of matters. That action s


we don't care how many years you have


been in ministry is wrong. There's not


that's not how we handle issues in the


body of Christ. We do not handle issues


like that. The same way someone is body


of Christ hear me


from Jos. You are commanding the body of


Christ. I hope you know body of Christ.


What do you think is body of Christ from


Modi? Body of Christ. Listen to me.


Body of Christ from Lagos.


Body of Christ. Which body of Christ are


you instructed? Body of Christ. You not


even see all the churches in that just


that you live. You cannot even address


them. I write now to the body of Christ


all over the world. You are exaggerating


your influencer. You don't see how many


views.


Look at the end now. The whole body of


Christ. You are speaking with the whole


body of Christ. You are not the shepherd


of our soul. You are not the high priest


of our profession. Jesus is. You're not


the you are not the apostle and high


priest of our profession. Is Jesus. He's


the one that speaks to the whole body of


Christ. Not even the pope can speak to


the whole body of Christ. Ah, no. Can


only speak to those that are in the


Roman


cycle.


Now they rich


the body. Hear me body of Christ. Ah.


Oh.


And that great institution. The reason


why they are respected because of their


unity. If we are united then politicians


the government take us seriously. Much


increase that came in yesterday years in


church history or in history generally


not just church history came because the


church was united now not united in as


it were we may hardly ever believe the


same doctrine as it were but the fact


that we know that we are brothers and


sisters not


he may not know this Bible verse does


not mean he's not my brother he just


doesn't know the Bible verse I have a


brother and sister in Christ Jesus does


not know the meaning of this Bible verse


it's not to say it's not my brother my


sister no who is my brother my sister in


Christ Jesus. Him that believes in the


lordship of Jesus. Some don't tie hair,


some tie hair. Some wear tr as female,


some don't. Some


use makeup, some don't use some don't


wear shoes, some wear shoe. Some wear


only white, some


like to


put swimming pool in their church and


call it pool of besid. We have all


manner of


we have all manner of brothers and


sisters. I mean it's an extended family


here.


[Laughter]


But the important the first thing I want


to track now my brother I be so I want


to first know is this person born again


and it has helped me greatly these days


say no we cannot tolerate it if good men


don't speak out even we you are young we


have been speaking out before you got


saved on Facebook start writing when you


write for 10 years you will know why we


stopped


good men good men you say you mean that


you mean that it's not enough to be


consistent Fighting for the truth.


Fighting for the truth.


Oh, fighting for the truth. I be you


will just become vengeful and an angry


person.


Error. Even even the Lord Jesus say let


the wheat grow with the t


[Music]


say we remove all the darkness. You you


you with your platform. That's why


that's why I say you should join us.


by attack. No, it's systemic teaching of


God's word that eradicates error.


>> People listen to the truth. Don't write


for engagement or write for conflict.


So if you are teaching and you are


preaching and you you teach your members


but not I want to call out bishop now


hear me.


No doesn't work like that. Of course, a


pastor can't do that because he's a


pastor because the pastor talking to a


pastor. But let's stop some of those


things.


Amen.


>> And deal with the issues so that we are


not attacking personalities. But if we


are correcting anything, we know it's


the doctrine we are correcting. That's


why we cannot be doing name tag and


saying but this pastor is person. No, we


don't do that. Is the doctrine. If you


even want to reference anything like


that.


Hallelujah. Praise God.


>> So there are philosophies and empty


deceit.


>> Did you get it?


>> Yes, sir.


>> Dear friend and we're just in that


Ephesians chapter 4.


There are people that have all the even


that I said ask them what is love to


tell you love is wicked. Ask them about


uh what's their view about uh marriage.


Mary's a prison. Ask them about


everything. They have wrong views,


worldly views


about nearly everything. So there's how


God's word sees life. Is that okay? And


how God's word sees life is the biblical


perspective of life


that we're talking about. So everyone


views life through a unique filter and


that's what is called their philosophy


and that's how you interpret events,


make decisions, respond to various


situations.


So biblical perspective of life is a


perspective that is shaped by biblical


teachings.


It influences how you understand God and


the world at large and our place in it


or your place in the world. So it's


shaped by Bible teachings


that influences


how you understand God, the world at


large, and your place in the world.


So I don't buy into philosophies and


wisdom that are not in line with God's


word. No matter how popular they are,


count me out of it. Amen.


And there there's a whole generation


that is being mentored on Tik Tok


being mentored on Tik Tok. See if you if


you speak about it say don't that not


judge sir we can judge that's not what


judge mean. I'll show you next week


Sunday uh how judgment is done and we


read on those context of biblical we can


judge things who told you we can't judge


things. Ah we can judge things so we can


judge you sir but the judgment should


not be damnatory neither that Greek word


catacly we should not sentence you


because as long as you are alive you can


still change but we can judge a person


we can judge a conduct we can judge an


action but in that judgment we retain


who the believer is a brother in Christ


Jesus is a sister in Christ Jesus is a


child of God know ye not that you are


this we we don't remove your sunship


because we correcting we don't remove


who you are in Christ.


Amen.


>> Amen.


>> Romans 12


verse one into two. I beseech you


therefore brethren by the mercies of God


that you present your bodies that bodies


that Jew gentile body I've told you what


that word body it's not physical body


that it meant present your union. So


present your union which union that


union that we have in Christ how we have


become it's a living sacrifice the way


God recreated us is a living sacrifice


holy and acceptable unto God and he says


which is your reasonable so your


reasonable service is to present


yourself the way you are in Christ Jesus


present yourself so the body is there


because it's in this Romans 12 that it


teaches um having gifts in the same body


he used that word B O D Y several times


you are quiet


don't worry it's normal when if you hear


something for the first time but this


not the first time I'm saying it for


those who have been long with us verse


five so we being many are one body


verse four as we have many members


in one body and all members


so is the same word S that is using so


Romans 12 flows from Romans 11.


So when he now says I beseech you


therefore brethren by the mercies bedren


by the mercies of God that you present


your bodies that you present your bodies


just like we say the body of lawyers met


in


transcodies


or that's the union and the association


all right said the the body of


journalist


but when we read body in the bible it


must be physical body must be your skin


your flesh I I know now it makes Bible


interpretation hard because we want one


word to mean the same thing everywhere


and words in the Bible are not always


like that.


So our union with our union one with


another in Christ Jesus is a living


sacrifice is already holy and acceptable


unto God. But we must present it. We


must stand like that. We must live like


that. And it tells us how. Be not


conformed to this word, but be


transformed by the renewing of your mind


that you may prove what is that good,


acceptable, and perfect will of God.


It's not three types of will of God. No,


the will of God is good, acceptable, and


perfect.


Not that if I don't go for the good


will, I go for the acceptable. If I


don't go for the acceptable will, I go


for the perfect way. No, the will of God


is good, acceptable, and perfect. For I


say through the grace given unto me to


every man is among you, not to think of


himself more highly than he ought to


think, but to think soberly, according


as God has dealt to every man the


measure of faith.


So every Christian has a part to play in


the faith. Now observe that verse two.


It says, "Be not conformed to this


world, but be transformed how?"


By the renewing of your mind. So we are


not conformed to this word. And the word


is used for conformed here.


Suk matiso in the Greek which means to


fashion yourself to copy worldly styles,


worldly patterns, worldly principles.


Just like the lady who said uh the Lord


inspired her to get a dress that showed


cleavage. How can the Lord inspire that?


Let's not be stupid now.


Can't the law cannot inspire that now


you know you want to blasphem


just blasphem and don't put god inside


is god just say you know that this dress


draws more attention is god inspired


let's be careful how god is inspiring


people if god inspires you like that you


should know you are not serving god is


satan what is not doing if god is


inspiring you like this satan went to


vacation


we know that satan we know the god there


that inspired you that god has a name


that god is the god of this world that


people should be Satan that inspired you


because you observed. No, now no, no,


no, no, no. We can judge things by God's


word. God's word gives us a view.


[Music]


So be not conformed to this world. So


there's dress. So say nobody can tell me


that I'm dressing like a prostitute.


There's dressing of a prostitute.


At least three references in the Bible


where somebody dress and they dressing


they mistook them for a harot


from Genesis


to Revelation. Do your Bible study. So


he say how I dress does not matter. Ah


how I dress matter. In fact, that's why


there's a chapter that Paul taught on


Christian dressing and that Christian


dressing not because there's something


called Christian fashion is that don't


and dressing modestly must not be a gang


must not be an overflowing gown must not


is modestly dressing modestly is exactly


what dressing modestly let's let's read


it I don't want to talk


Peter And


Paul talks about that


that old word say Paul shamefacedness.


First Peter chapter 2


shamef faced does not mean to dress with


shame. Oh no no dress in regard of how


others see you. So that's the shape


dress with having others in view


old English is the word modesty.


First Timothy chapter 2 verse 8. I will


therefore that men pray everywhere


lifting up holy hands without rot and


doubting in like manner also that women


adorn themselves in modest apparel.


What modest apparel well arranged


with shamefacedness. Shamefacedness


simply means in regard for others. Don't


dress in a manner that you can be


bashed. Don't dress with bashfulness.


Trunks call it bashfulness. Don't dress


in a manner that people can just be


bashing you up and down because even


society knows it's not okay. That's why


they are bashing you. So they didn't


have to be in Christ Jesus. The fact


that society is even you are


uncomfortable. Ah know that that's too


much now


and soiety. So dress with soundness of


mind


not with


braided hair or gold or pierce or costly


array that's not the issue but


which becometh women professing


godliness with good works. So he says


let it not just be about the outward. So


even when you dress with these things


I don't we read more than one text you


see because this is where people now use


you can't do your hair you can't wear


gold you can't wear all this because


it's unholy okay we take this way of


reading


see that it does not work


first Peter because they conjoin that


with first Peter chapter


that says, "Likewise, ye wives, be in


session to your own husbands, that if


any obey not the word, they also may be


with they may without the word be worn


by the conversation of the wives. While


they behold your chase conversation


coupled with fear, woos adorning, let it


not be woo adorning." So your dressing


should be not just about outward


adorning. Let it not just be. So


1 Peter 3:3 whose adorning let it not be


that outward adorning of plating the


hair and of wearing of gold of putting


on of appar so we should be naked not


wear at all but let it be the hidden man


of the so that's what he's teaching it's


not it can never


in fact go imprisoning that woman which


will represent Israel in Ezekiel say I


decked you with good.


The prophet doesn't know that God hate


gold.


No. Now, don't don't bring religion into


uh Bible interpretation


because how can God have an issue with


gold and silver and yet he filled the


earth with gold and silver? God is so


immoral. He filled the earth with unholy


things. No, no. It's how a thing is


used.


There's something wrong with gold and


silver.


So it says the adoning the dressing


should not just be about externance. It


should be dress with the consciousness


of who you are the hidden man of the


heart. That's the same thing that 1


Timothy 2:9 was saying. That's why it


says in like manner also women adorn


themselves.


So look at verse 10. He now says but.


The challenge is that word but. I don't


know why they use the word but there it


looks like it's a contradiction because


most people have but like contradiction


but has more than one application


because that word but is used for


nevertheless notwithstanding. It can be


an objection. It can be an exception. It


can be a restriction. So it can also be


a rather or a moreover. So the context


determines which one. So it's not that


it's a contradiction. It's not always


that.


But in this context,


the women adorn themselves in modest


apparel with shame facedness and soiety,


not with braided hair or gold or peers


of or costly array.


But you notice it's in bracket.


Oh boy, you are not there. 1 Peter 2:10.


So, but with good works. That's simply


what he's saying. So, if you do all of


these things, please be conscious of


godliness. That's simply what he's


saying. So, always dress with godliness.


Always dress with what?


>> And you can make godliness stylish.


Don't buy into that idea that godliness


cannot be stylish


because it was people that brought all


these different styles


and slowly people didn't used to like it


but over time now people are comfortable


with it that people are okay showing us


their own stomach showing us their


breast on the road and his fashion


style.


So a Christian knows not to dress like


that. Should you uh what do they call


it? Say I I wanted to dress hot.


Ah,


I hope that hot. It's not that you are


dressing seductively because now you an


agent of the devil. No, dress properly.


Dress like a young person. Dress in a


fashionable way. But let it not be


against godliness. That's why you need


to know what is even the godliness.


What is proper? Is it Elisa? Elisa


Betan era dressing. You don't know


Queen Elizabethan


era that uh 16 William Shakespeare time.


Have you not seen those gang? That is


nobody dresses like that now because the


time so the culture of the day. So you


want to know what the time means?


Dressing the culture of the day. the


culture of the day in the sense that the


widespread acceptance of people that is


then you view it alongside that is not


against who you are in Christ Jesus or


against godliness. I cannot show people


my body and I'm saying I'm a Christian.


No. So if the culture of the day is now


against who we are in Christ


there was a time where uh palazo it has


rained and came back again


know there's fashion of the time and


it's not ungodly. So people can do that


but it comes so it's like every 50 years


the fashion waves back and forth goes


come back goes come back


but for the believer I must dress with


godliness


I must add godliness and godliness is


must not be seen here are you getting my


point I'm trying to break that


stereotype that you think that okay you


want to dress modestly that's why I must


wear suits that's why no no don't dress


in a manner that makes people wonder You


are a Christian. Thank you.


So Ba said, "Dress the way you want to


be addressed." And that's true.


There's a way Tom had dressed when she


wanted to hit the street.


There is a way


Esther was told to dress and all the


people that they were preparing for the


king. There's a way you dressing there's


guidelines for and those dressings


matter because there's a result you want


to achieve. There is a way Naomi told


Ruth to dress. He says he say wash


yourself. Pour oil as smell nice.


She had a mission. There was something


to achieve. No look. He say this our


village woman said don't dress like a


village girl. That's what she was


telling her. The woman have experience.


Now me say don't dress like a village


girl she will not he will now say that


this one she has been married before now


she will look beyond that


say can I know your parents


and that's how the woman gave the other


woman advice dressing well


so dressing well is anything that you


wear that is not against who you are in


Christ so can it be short sleeves cloth


and be as long as what should be private


is kept private. Not be showing us


things that should be kept private and


say that's that's not modesty that's


even not proper and that's why you go


through the stress of trying to adjust


your cloth. You have already worn it.


Let us see the wonders of creation that


you are showcasing.


You are the one that wore it. Didn't you


know that's why you must didn't you know


before you wore it now you are


uncomfortable


in what you wore fire down


>> you wanted to slay with it now


so dress well


learning something


>> dress well so there's I can't say though


I will not be doing looking like there


are people and the safety is what brings


us to the evil of today


that uh the Brazilian BBL


you cannot have peace say see my body


it's not banging


see my is reason why some people cannot


leave the gym of course dreaming


dreaming is good exercise is good but


not with low self-esteem because you


want to be loved I don't want people to


see me less ah who has damaged your mind


I don't want people to see me less I


don't want people ah


Hey, there are many person never hit the


gym that people are not seeing less. So


let low self-esteem not power the right


things. Deal with those wrong vices,


those wrong way of thinking. You feel


like you are not enough. So you so that


people can approve of you. You live your


life because of the approval of men. Ah


the same people that say


crucify him, crucify him. Don't do that.


Don't do that. Amen.


say you need to have that banging body.


No,


have banging body


but don't have it because of low


self-esteem. Don't have it because you


want to be a tool in the hand of Satan.


Are you following? And you don't need to


distort and affect your body then now


suffer consequences. Somebody says


because it's a cheap one, you use the


expensive one, it will not affect you.


No walla you already shows how much you


already a captive of the element because


you felt like you were not enough.


You're not enough. I need to modify my


body so that I can be accepted and


loved. What about the thousands of


people that are loved?


Because the issue is what do you feed


on? You cannot feed on Instagram and Tik


Tok 8 hours of a day and not be swayed


by that. That will be how you think.


That will be your influence. That will


be how you think, how you live. Because


that's all you now know as normal. Man


is a product of influence. Don't


exaggerate how mature you are. There's a


reason why you shut out some


ungodliness.


Short it out. This thing is wrong. This


thing is wrong. Shut it out. Remove it


from your thinking. Amen.


>> So we explore more around all of these


things because the Bible gives us the


view


on different issues. Isaiah 55:8 and 9


as we begin to round off. Amen. For my


thoughts are not your thoughts, neither


are your ways my ways, declares the


Lord. For as the heavens are higher than


the earth, so are my ways higher than


your ways, and my thoughts than your


thoughts.


Is God transcendent?


So we see God's perspective and human


understanding.


My thoughts are not your thought. But


does God want our thought to be his


thoughts? But he's showing us there's a


difference. And that's what we're


talking about biblical perspective of


life. We need God's thought.


God's thought


that some persons their holy spirit will


never tell them that they were dressed


wrongly. That's how we know they don't


have holy spirit or they are not godly


at all. They don't listen to god. They


have seared their conscience with hot


iron. The same thing with uh certain


things that you said things that you did


no nothing spoke to you. You are going


too far.


You must there must be that God in your


life that God factor where God can speak


to you, can minister to you. Amen. Love


not this word. Yet we are told God so


loved the word. So you notice is


different. There's a different context.


So you can say but God love the word


now. No, you're not supposed to hate the


word either. The word here in first John


2:15, love not the word, neither the


things that are in the word. If any love


the word the love of the father is not


in him.


[Music]


So the love of this world then he says


for all that is in the word the lust of


the flesh. This is what I avoid. I


cannot dress like this. The lust of


all that is in the world. This is the


reason why he say don't love the world.


All that is in the world is the loss of


the flesh. The lust of the eye and the


pride of life is not of the father but


is of the world.


Did you see it?


And the word passeth away, and the lost


thereof, but he that dwelt the will of


God abided forever.


Hallelujah.


Love not the word, neither the things


that are in the word.


Love not the word. So there's the loving


of this word, worldliness. That's why


it's called worldliness. James says,


"Friendship with the word is enmity with


God.


I cannot." So we must coinc says we that


use these words must be careful how we


use this word. So beware of those


philosophies.


Beware of philosophies that attack and


affect who you are in Christ. View the


principles your basic assumption for


life your basic instinct. Review them


with God's word.


There are Christians who say things like


love is wicked. that say things like you


can't trust anybody and they play this


life is beautiful. They're learning it


from WAP


and you are learning all the


philosophies they give you. No, you must


be careful. You must be careful how you


are buying adopting things that are


ungodly.


Must be careful. Don't trust anybody


have never been able to buy into that


philosophy. People can break their break


your trust. People can betray you.


People can deny you. But you see, you


should still trust people. It's an


unhealthy way to live that there's


nobody you can trust. No. Say there's no


there's no this. There's no this. No, we


don't have such conclusions. God's word


guides our hearts. God's word guides our


affairs. God's word guides our actions.


I'm not conformed to this world. I'm


transformed. And I go higher and beyond


it by the renewing of my mind. Amen.


>> And it affects me everywhere. I end on


this note.


These days is becoming harder. I'm


almost getting tired of doing business


in in this world because there are so


many wicked people. Their word stands


for nothing. And it's unfortunate many


these days that even almost when I hear


somebody say Christian I almost say ah


he go scam me go cheat no not go do the


business where how did we get there


that now when you hear is a Christian I


say ah forget it forget it the thing


will not work it has happened because


Christians don't want because we we want


to do business the way unbelievers do


business not knowing that our fruit of


the spirit is power in business that I


[Music]


can be trusted that I can all those say


no I don't care about integrity I don't


care about character it's just money I


want to make


wicked people it's so hard to do


business again because


we can't


and there are Christians also doing


business the same way an unbeliever is


doing business. No difference. It's like


you fell into the hand of an unbeliever


is business. So you say ah this one


business is business. No business is


business. Does not mean that you have to


be ungodly in business.


Don't lose who you are because you are


trying to make money. No no no sir.


Business is business in the sense that


you must run business by business


principles. But any business principle


that affects and attacks who you are in


Christ, reject that's not a business


principle.


No,


that's not a business principle that you


should adopt. Let all believers adopted


but not you. And that's why even today


now when we look at companies say what


is their values those values not look


like fruit of the spirit to you say our


values in this organization is that but


you have it for free in Christ Jesus is


what people are are bringing expert to


teach them soft skill that you are in


Christ


no no no I use my advantage


I use my advantage let it be said ah not


that ah if you don't put camera then say


go t your money we employed you we had


to put camera because you are stealing


money in the office


who did this to you instead of the the


the if you leave it there you will see


it there ah no you are a Christian


should be able to that is what don't buy


into worldly principles that you cannot


win by right you can win by


righteousness


>> you can win by righteousness hallelujah


>> so renew your mind I'm not conformed to


this world I'm transformed by the renew


of my mind stand on your feet lift your


hands to heaven


and just thank the Lord for the words


you have heard.


I won't live the way unbelievers live,


the way worldly people live. I won't


think the way worldly people think. I


won't transact. I won't do business. I


won't engage with people the way


unbelievers do. I want it to always be


clear that I'm I did something with a


Christian. I did something with a


Christian. That's why we state it. This


is how everything will be. So I don't


say you treated me. No, this is it. This


is how everything is.


I'm fair. I do things properly. You not


last for this business. Let us show you


the rope. You not teach me how to be a


thief. No. I did not come to learn how


to tie. You This is the person training


me. He's training me the way of being a


thief. No.


No. No.


[Music]


So sir, should the skirt go any skirt


that is below before my knee? Ah, I


don't know that one. No, I'm not the one


that does measurement of skirt.


If it go below your knee, if it go over


your knee, the important thing, it


should not show your body. It should not


show your body and it should not be worn


for the purpose of feeling special. So


now you feel beautiful. That's already


wrong now. Oh, I will get somebody if I


dress like this. That is that should not


be it because there's no measurement


size in the Bible.


[Music]


So, how comfortable are you now that you


sat down? We are seeing all your body


should know that that is now on godly


but there's no measurement size that say


bring the tape. This is not religion


that do that one


far way of living. No, but dress


modestly, dress appropriately,


dress in a manner that you are confident


that you are not feeling less like all


eyes are on me and it's not all eyes on


you for the right reason. All eyes on


you because this one get my man. No,


I love it when parents tell me, "Pastor,


you have changed my son. He used to be


very rude. He's now this. He used to be


this." Don't make it look like we're not


teaching you.


We are teaching you the things that make


for greatness, that makes for being a


good person in life and society because


that's what the church produces. So


>> that we will now be saying is is a


failure of not producing


[Music]


let it not be. That's why we emphasize


that's why comes in because even you


will know that this does not follow.


Nobody will tell you. You may have come


in dressing like that. Over time, you


will just realize that this is not not a


work. Everybody's just looking different


in this place. I'm is it that I'm the


only one going to? Yes, you're the only


one.


No, you realize that how you dress, how


you talk, how you live matter. And not


because there is a a a judgment on your


head that ah we despise you. We don't do


that. There are also people who do that.


Once you just see someone who is this


one, we don't do that. Yeah. No. We are


patient. with people. We are forgiving


with people. We don't come with those


satanic lenses. Please allow people


dress fine.


Allow people dress fine and not because


you cannot afford it. You say ah is it


this is too much? What is too much here?


Please let me dress fine. Don't bring


all those lenses as long as


it is not ungodly. It is not against


godliness. It's not against who you are


in Christ. It's not portraying something


of this world. It's okay.


Should I use lipstick? If I use 12 if


you like. Should I use I'm trying to put


disclaimer. You don't hear what I not


say. Which one is which is lipstick? How


is


can I fix if you know since your eyelash


not you going fix drain? But if you did


it because you want to seduce 10 is


wrong. Why did you learn all those


things? If you did it because you know


it's fine and you just want to look


fine. Nothing wrong in looking fine.


That's what Paul was now saying that you


already using this word. Don't now abuse


it like unbelievers do. Don't now use it


the way unbeliever will now use it.


Since you are now using those same


things


hallelujah


>> there's what edify. All things are


lawful but all things do not edify. All


things are not expedient and that guides


our conduct in all things. Hallelujah.


>> So think on these things.


>> I'm a Christian.


>> Not only in church,


>> everywhere.


>> Everywhere.


>> I do not I uphold my values everywhere.


>> I


say ah do business with him. You will


see that is employers that will be


pursuing you.


Every employer is looking for people


that can be trusted and yet there are


many Christians that cannot be employed.


Ah the number one trait among saved and


unsaved


is faithfulness. The Christian get for


free. Ah it should be that I've worked


for people.


The woman said you carry. I told her


don't pay me if I cannot deliver the


result. She said you are different. You


are confident. said and I said this is


what you will pay me. I said if I don't


deliver it every month. She said you're


a young boy you should need the money


now. That's the only place I work to


secondary after leaving secondary


school.


I delivered the people the children that


were the student that don't know book no


book. I took my time.


The woman gave me money gave me card


gave me wrote her name. If you ever when


you finish school I knew I was not going


to come back. That time I used to be


very


I just throw away the paper because I


didn't want I always burn my bridges


they come back I know they come back oh


when they come back oh going forward but


that was too much I know better now


[Music]


be like that


I was doing I told somebody I was doing


a business with someone and I sent it


said ah see it did not fail I said it's


me you did business with her why should


he fail the exact act time the exact


every no complaint 2 years we did


business afterward he sent me 50,000 to


thank me who then they send money to the


tank person to do business with somebody


I've had people send me money to thank


me do business the right way don't be


doing business with thief you are a man


of God I not man of God I don't mean


pastor every Christian is a man of God


you're a man God uses let it show let it


show let it show in how you will do


things we are not saying that we are the


best example. No, we are not preaching


ourself. We are examples only where we


are godly. Paul says we are not the


message. Christ is the message. We only


bring oursel in as examples of doing


what we are trying to teach. Amen.


There's much to learn.


>> Let's be proud doing business with you,


with you, with you, with you, with you.


You will see that there's nothing like


they will not they will increase it.


we increase is natural. Everybody's


looking for who they is the most


important trait in the workplace.


I did a a a a program in Harvard


Business online business school. The


professor, the white man emphasized it.


You see what I'm trying to I had to I


don't like talking about secular


learning or education.


me I read not think pastor is only bible


you know I don't only bible I know I


know many things so


>> it is the not not number two not the


number one trait in the workplace even


to even where you say politicians are


tying money the number one trait


everybody's looking for is who can I


trust


we have found him that we have found you


are the Christian for god's sake let's


not be say a Christian nh Ah, no, no,


no. Let your yes be yes. Hallelujah.


>> Be like that. I'm faithful. If a man be


found faithful. The highest in steel


worship. If a man be found faithful, I'm


found faithful. I can be faithful.


Faithful in another man's work, he will


put him over his own. I'm faithful. I'm


faithful in the things that I do. I


carry the work as if it's my own. I


carry it. I don't want you to die. I


say, "Hey, I've seen my guy around


there." Then I behave when he's not


there. I don't care. No, I carry this


work as if it's my own.


But I'm prophesying to people. I'm


talking to people.


>> Yes, sir. Yes, sir.


>> But nobody, nobody. I always differ from


all those


foolish school of wisdom that people are


learning. No employee ever became rich.


If you are doll, say you are doll. Don't


be talking things that you don't know.


Even still ball m richer than Bill Gates


today and it was employee we Bill Gates


even richer than Bill Gate 9 is in top


10 we have history of billionaires


that are in the top me I know I know all


of them by name because I am in I'm a


businessman too Jesus I preach


my research is on wealth because I


handle money and I handle finance


somebody now that one lazy person knows


nothing saying that there's No employee.


You know how many employees are in that


top 100 list? You know how many? It's


not five. It's not 10. I wish it was 20


because we have this wrong idea of of


doing somebody else own somebody else


own. That's why everybody have start


business that cannot grow today.


Everybody is a CEO of nothing. You can


every small thing you don't break away.


The same thing in ministry. Same thing


in business. break, break way, they


break, they break, they go,


but big multinationals come together,


five persons, four persons, but you once


5,000 has enter


so we can't build lasting businesses.


No, we can trust you. We can trust you.


We know that if we have you in our


corner,


there are people I do business with


companies, I have to send an external


auditor to the company because I don't


trust them. But there are some person


I've never sent an auditor once 3 years


of doing business with some companies


and I've never sent an auditor to go and


audit their whole records because


they are godly.


They are going over and beyond. You see,


be a be a Christian. Be a Christian. Be


a Christian everywhere. Be a Christian.


Not in church. Not in church. Be a


Christian everywhere. Everywhere.


Be godly. Be good. Be be the salt of the


earth and be the light.


And it even has his blessedness. But


beyond the blessedness, for the sake of


righteousness, I will be like that. So


tell the Lord, help me to live with your


wisdom every day. Help