Father, we thank you this morning Lord.


We open our heart to your spirit and we


trust again that in this service


revelation knowledge will flow free


course unhindered in the name of Jesus.


We declare that the things that ought to


be said will be said in this service


lives will never be the same again. We


declare that even as we again teach on


biblical perspective of life that we


will gain that perspective in our living


in the name of Jesus. Amen. God bless


you. Have your seats. Turn your Bibles


to James chapter 1 and we'll begin from


there this morning.


Hallelujah.


James chapter 1


and verse 20.


or just read from 18. Of his own will


begat us with the word of truth that we


should be the kind of first fruit of his


creature. So it says that we are born


again by God's word. Wherefore my


beloved brethren, let every man be swift


to hear, slow to speak, slow to rot. For


the w of man walketh not the


righteousness of God. Wherefore lay


apart all filthiness and superfluity of


naughtiness, and receive with meekness


the engrafted


word, which is able to save your souls.


The word of God is able to save your


souls. Verse 22. And be doers of the


word and not hearers only, deceiving


your own selves. If any be a yearer of


the word and not a doer, he's like unto


a man beholding his natural face,


beholding his natural face


in a glass, and he beholding himself,


and goeth his way, and straight away


forgetth what manner of man he was.


Verse 25. And who so lookketh into the


perfect law of liberty and contin


therein, he being not a forgetful


hearer, but a doer of the work, this man


shall be blessed in his deed.


Hallelujah.


So he talks about he is like a man. The


word man in verse 23 is not male and


female. It's just the word male. The


word man, there's the way a man, a male


use mirror. Say there's a way a male use


mirror. Men don't use mirror except


those ones that are having gay


tendencies.


Naturally, it is like um 8020.


When a man becomes overly obsessed with


a mirror the way a woman is, something


is fundamentally wrong. So even the


scriptures uses the way a man uses a


mirror because a man does not spend the


whole day on a mirror trying to draw


line finishing touch lay foundation and


build on top.


I think you understand what I mean. So a


woman spends time with the mirror


because she lays foundation then build


on that foundation. No other foundation


can any woman lay and that was already


laid by the equipment she has in her


bag. So having laid those equipment so


that takes a bit of time on the mirror


except those that don't have the


equipment in their bag but those have


have the equipment take time on the


mirror doing the perfect diagram to


show. So and men do not do perfect


diagram to show except the ones that are


beginning to have gay or queer views


because they the reason why a man is


doing makeup. We will never understand


this makeup is so it's 20%. So I'm


trying to be nice not to just say all


men. So 20% so 9010


10% you will have of men that are very


conscious of that. There are some men


that put comb in their back pocket. It's


not because they always come there every


5 minutes. It's because it's woman they


eyeing. So it's for a mission come on


the back for not a Christian. These are


not how you describe prison. We come in


back pocket then low waist. No, that's a


a prisoner.


I'm dropping it small small. All right.


So know who you are. James one, but be


doers of the world and not hearers only


deceiving your own self. The word


deceiving your own self is that you are


acting a drama. So every time a


Christian does not act God's word, he


says deceiving himself. Why? because


he's a child of the word of God. So you


are playing character. That word


deceiving yourself is used in theater


act. So he's deceiving himself. He say


you are playing character.


You know how people believe Pata is a


witch because of the role she act


because she plays it so well. The same


way even though nobody can tell me K is


not a ritualist but the same way. It's


the same way. You don't know. Okay.


Okay. It's okay. you didn't you didn't


live in our in the time where we were


watching him. Now he's is looking all


nice was more scary than that. So,


so if not for the rise of skit makers,


this


Gen Z people will not know that there's


somebody like Kok that terrorized our


childhood


with


epic.


So, how do you say Canor is not a


ritualist in real life when Neo is


filist? So you see that means he has


played that character very well. That's


what the Bible is saying that any man


that is not doing God's word is playing


character because his real face is what


God's word says. So when you see a


Christian behaving outside the


boundaries of God's word that's why we


can call him to order and say baba you


deceive yourself my friend live the way


you are in Christ. So every time you act


outside God's word you are playing


character.


It's like you are in a movie


set. You are playing character. You are


playing the evil wife. You are playing


the evil. So if a wife is becoming


troublesome and evil to her husband,


that is a character she's playing. We


should be able to tell that this is not


the true wife. This one is character. So


we should hold that back to God's word.


If a man is becoming vindictive and all


of those things,


you are playing character. Go back to


who you really are. This is not a movie


set. This is real life.


This is real life. So for the believer,


he says be doers of the word and not


hearer. So I'm supposed to be a doer of


the word. And that word doer of the


word. It's my nature.


So because he now explains who is the


doer of the word. He says the error of


the word is the doer of the word. So he


goes further.


If any be aer of the word and not a


doer, he's like a man building his


natural face in a glass.


25 who so look into the perfect law of


liberty and continued therein. He being


not a forgetful yearer but a doer of the


word. So he explains the kind of year.


So he say oh the yearer is the doer but


what kind ofer is the doer? He says not


the forgetful. The word forgetful there


is the word used for someone who


neglects.


N E G L E C the normal neglect. You know


someone who neglects. Someone who it is


that word um epilomai is from two words.


the two words the word epi epi and


latano which is the word for something


to be unaware or hidden and so he's


using it like you are out of your mind


is out of your mind so the person is


forgetting it's like


sorry remind me what did I just do just


now what did I just do just now is where


you know where people look like they


lost themsel where where am I where am I


say oh you are here you say ah I just


like I had a relapse like


that is what he means by forgetful year.


So that year because the yearing is


enough. So he now brings in that


forgetful the forgetful there is that he


blanked out or she blanked out. Did you


get it? All right. I'm like person is


out of their mind for a moment like


what's happening? Where am I? What what


did I say? What did I just say just now?


What did I just do just now? So it's


like you get yourself back and is that


not true about every one of us here


where for a moment you were doing


something that was wrong. It looked like


but afterward you just like you get


yourself back and realize that what did


I just do just now? You are now all of a


sudden feeling guilty and unbeliever do


not because that's the life of the


unbeliever. Of course you can package


that guilt and look like you're not


guilty but you know you actually feeling


guilty because you are a Christian. you


what I mean by package that guilty in


the sense that you because you wanted to


do that was wrong. So it looked like you


were not feeling guilty but you know


that k I shouldn't be doing this thing


is there in your heart if it's not there


in your heart then you are not saved


so an unbeliever is proud and makes it a


lifestyle and he doesn't hide his his


lifestyle of evil.


Amen. So unbelievers, you know, we


sometimes make it look so hard to tell


an unbeliever from a believer. No, an


unbeliever makes a practice of sin and


shows it to the world. Doesn't hide it.


You see the kind of shows that they put


up in society. Now that's how


unbelievers you I don't know why people


are surprised is that is when a


Christian wants to go and partake of


that kind of of show. We now know that


Christian is not a Christian. That's how


unbelievers live. They don't do any


better. That's we are not expecting


better from them. That's how unbelievers


live.


If a Christian has a drinking problem,


we hide an unbeliever drinks in a bar.


Everybody can see them. They do high


five. So, but don't come say


my regular


that is an unbeliever. Are you


following? They a lifestyle. They don't


unbelievers are part of the temptation


in the world. So, so you you it's always


easy to separate an unbeliever from a


believer. So, when he says


verse 22, be ye doers of the word, the


word doer, the one who whose life,


one who has been made by God's word. So,


God's word has made me because he says


of his own way begat yours that we


should be a kind of first fruit. So, we


are born again by God's word. But the


same thing Peter talks about first Peter


1:23 being born again not of corruptible


but of incorruptible by the word of God.


So I can't go against my nature. My


nature as a believer


is God's word. Are you seeing it? So


that's why I'm supposed to live by God's


word. God's word is my life. God's word


regulates my life and God's word is how


I live. So I am a doer of God's word.


I am a doer of God's word. That's that


word doer there. I'm a doer of God's


word.


It says


be doers of the word and not hearers


only. So the man that is not a doer is


merely just hearing because he's


supposed to be a doer.


Are you with me? Be doers of the word


and not hearers only deceiving your own


self. So that hearing leads to what?


Doing. So how do I become a doer of the


word? By hearing. But can I hear and not


do? Yes. How do I hear and not do? Is


when I He explains further verse 23.


Because if any be a hearer of the word


and not a doer. So he gives you the


reason because if any man be aer of the


word and not a doer, he's like unto a


male man. That's the word there. A male


man. It's not anthropos he uses there.


That will speak of male and female. He


uses the Greek word an a n e r


relative to sex. A male man.


So the gender sex now male or female.


The male man.


He's like onto a male man beholding


his natural face in a glass. He's very


fast. He doesn't use the mirror for a


long time. So he did not stay long.


So the next verse he now says for he


beholding himself and goeth his way


straight away forgeted what manner of


man he was. You see it? So the woman is


very conscious of how she looks. That's


why she put mirror inside the bag


or she uses her phone camera


because she's conscious. Ah, see the


lipstick has left the place.


Oh man has time to be observing that


one. Observing that one say I'm good to


go. Hit the road. Hit the road.


All right.


He beholding himself and goeth his way


and straight away forget what manner of


man he was. So he's not retaining that


image. The one he saw in the house is


enough. It doesn't. He's not. So, how do


I look commenting now? How do I look


commenting now? No. But the woman has to


look at herself. How do I look now?


Because


supposed to me.


I want to always be confident in my


look. I don't want to give up a wrong


image. So, she's conscious of her image,


conscious of her appearing.


Of course, it may not be true of you,


but this is just using what was common


in that world view. So maybe you as a


female don't use mirror never wish to


fight abcing


it on you just using as an example that


the males use mirror in a very fast


manner so they don't retain the image


the female does. So he now says, "Who so


lookth into the perfect law of liberty


and continue," you see that word


continue,


the word continue,


parameo in the Greek, to stay there


like one wants to live there, a


permanent resident.


So that word


continued from two words the Greek word


par and meno. Meno is the word abide


abide by if you abide in me and my word


abide in you that Jesus continuously


uses that word uh par a r a is the word


used when you say something is off or


beside or near. So this abiding is of


the abiding. So continue. So I am living


here.


I'm I'm residing here. I'm residing with


this mirror. It's me and this mirror


because a woman is conscious of her


appearance, conscious of how she is


seen.


Are you following?


So he's using that example, not that


he's saying people should be obsessed


with how they look. No, that's not what


he's saying. So he uses that to say


that's how you should be conscious of


your imaging, conscious of your


appearance. So this is now to the male


and the female in Christ Jesus be


conscious of. So he says look into the


word of God continue therein. Then he


says he being not a forgetful. That's


how he's not a forgetful error. He's not


a forgetful error because he continues.


So


because he continues


therein


but a doer of the work this man shall be


blessed in his deed. So we talk about a


biblical perspective of life and every


time we talk around that most people


believe that oh okay we're talking about


biblical perspective of life. So what we


mean is


that the


man the woman has moral principles. This


is far greater than moral principles.


What we are saying is beyond moral


principles. What we are saying is


greater than moral principles for God's


sake. It's more than that. A biblical


perspective for life we said it is the


lens in which you see life. Abby.


>> Yes sir.


>> It is the perspective. My perspective of


life. My perspective of life. My


perspective of life. The world view that


I have. So the perspective that is


shaped by biblical teaching that


influences how I understand the world or


God.


So we use Colossians 2:8 last time.


See to it that no one takes you captive


by philosophy and empty deceit according


to human traditions according to the


elemental spirits of this world and not


according to Christ. So we said that


there is no random


philosophy in the world. Once it is


widespread, it is elemental spirit. And


we said let that not be spooky to you


that using the word spirit because it is


the age of enlightenment 16th to 19th


century that brought that separation


between seen and unseen world.


Before the 16th century, no human being


on the earth had a


had an idea that the unseen world was


not real. No human being.


It is from the beginning of time to the


15th century there was no human being


that was thinking that there is no


unseen world. So it is in that age of


enlightenment that brought the


difference between faith and science


that okay this is science this is faith


this is all these things about God


worship of God let's separate it and has


come from human failure hot


disappointment and all of those things


so


the biblical worldview as we say the


world of the biblical writers for


example


the world of a biblical writer is


different from having a biblical


worldview. I'll explain


when we say


that timeline that they were living the


timeline of Moses is a timeline that can


also be called the biblical worldview.


But that biblical worldview is not how


you should see life or is how the people


in that day saw themsel. Now where we


now say biblical worldview for living


should now be how the Bible has shaped


how you live. They are not the same


thing. Did you get it? So for lack of a


better word we say the biblical timeline


so that we can understand it because we


say world view we have to say the world


view of that day


because the worldview of that day is


what the Bible is recording. But when


you say a biblical worldview is not the


worldview that the Bible is recorded,


but my interpretation of the Bible now


is how I see the world. Did you get it?


So technical difference very loud. So


there is the timeline of Moses and


there's a distance between David and us,


King David. There's a difference between


Samson and us. The distance between even


the virgin birth. distance between


Apostle Paul and us


and that distance is very far.


That's why you say 2,00 2,000 years ago


is not 20 years ago. 2,000 years ago is


not 25 years. It's not 200 years. Are


you following? So that is there's a


distance gap. And when interpreting the


Bible, we try to bridge that distance


gap. the time gap, all the geographical


gap, the language gap, there are


different gap in context in interpreting


the Bible.


Amen.


So Colossians 2:8, we emphasized that


last week that that's what is called a


rudiment, the rudiment of this world. So


many philosophies that people have that


are widespread that they think does not


involve a spirit where


where ideas or philosophies that are


breeded by


spirits good and bad. Amen. And many of


the philosophies that people buy into


today are all philosophies that they


many of these philosophies of which why


people hate anything that has to do with


when you say generosity people get


angry. But be generous to them. They are


happy.


Once you hear give, people are angry.


That thing did not come


accidentally. It's not because people


work for their money. It's a there's a


breadth to it.


So it's widespread. That's why there's


an anger. But you don't see that anger.


It's only in church.


Only in church. The same people that are


angry that you are giving in church will


say, "Father, I wrote a post during the


week." And somebody commented as me I


like to hit on the head. Somebody


commented and said uh something about


me I don't give in churches at all. I


give to orphanage. I said this post is


for Christians.


Are you a Christian? Because the Bible


teaches believers to give. You see


that's somebody that in his mind is hot.


He's not just hot. He's not a Christian.


If he deceive, he can be deceiving his


family members, his friends, but that is


not a Christian. That is not how


Christians talk or that if he's a


Christian that somebody that has not


been discipled at all


is we don't do what is trending society


say give so you not so we should not


give in church that same reason why when


people are passing they when people in


any place they say church get money


church get money


church get money church get money


churches that they make because that


poverty in their blood is affecting


their brain.


Anybody who has ever handled church


finance know that maybe we'll be


announcing offerings in this church so


that you'll be hearing it. You'll be so


disappointed with the crowd and you see


offering amount.


That's why you should go and be a


pastor. You should start your own church


because because there's this idea people


have that churches they make ammo. No,


no


offerings. you hear offering 130,000


that's how they used to make it in your


village that's not enough for diesel


offering 200,000 by reason of great


mercy of God


and yet somebody on they make they make


which make they make him funny enough


people like us we haven't been paid


nobody in church is being paid except


the security men which is Not because


it's not a voluntary service. It's not


their it's not their service unto God.


They don't even need to know Jesus


Christ. They only to ensure that this


place is safe. Are you following this?


That's like an employment. So they have


to be paid.


It's not an employment. So if it's an


employment, then we have to


pay them. But every service is


voluntary. We don't pay keyboardies.


Neither do we pay anybody. We don't pay


the worship team. We don't pay the the


the pastors. We don't pay the ushers, we


don't pay the sanitation because


everything we do, we do it onto the Lord


which is the proper order. Nobody's been


paid anything.


So what I'm serving the lord however if


is now becomes an occupation then they


should be paid because this is we gather


we don't we don't you don't leave in


church Monday to Sunday if you do then


we have to now be paid.


So that's the difference of structure


that people get to argue unnecessarily


but say ah there's money in church


there's money in church the place that


there's money in church is when you


start manipulating and deceiving people


and the only place you also that's one


the second place you see money in church


is when people are now being taught to


give generously and that will be seen in


the project and the different things


that the church is undergoing but having


that idea that uh offerings tithes


because we don't take it that year and


we are not against you if you give it


but we have never uh announced types


since the ministry started and we we


never announce it.


People should be people are we are


taught as believers to give and give


will willfully give what you want to


give. Give any amount or percentage you


want to give and be joyful about your


giving. That is what the scripture


teaches. The the New Testament is not


loud on a certain percentage because you


can give all the percentage if you like.


You can give any percentage but make


sure you are deliberate with your


giving. We are taught that much in


scripture. That is again you see the


Bible shapes how I inter. So I cannot


join the freezer people movement on


social media and be saying somebody even


said during that titan debate that I


rather flush my own. Is that are we


still talking about moral people here?


Is this still morality? If we use that


word morality is this thing normal


thinking people we are dealing with I


rather flush it we are talking with a


beast here you are arguing with Paul


said I fought beast at Ephesus this is


the way of the beast you should be able


and I'm not joking Paul said I fought


beast at this is the way of the beast


this is animalistic tendency this is


ideas that are born out of people who


hate the name of Jesus I say no it's not


really like I you hate Jesus ah you hate


Jesus you hate Jesus Because you are


never angry that people spend money in


the club. You are never angry that


people who told you we are wasting the


money when we give it in church say but


they're not giving it onto God because


you think we are really idious. We


actually giving it onto God by giving it


to the service of God because the giving


it to God is not literally that we put


the money in God's hand. Nobody has ever


taught that. But what we do one to


another we do unto the Lord. That is


what the Bible teaches. So that is


actually a biblical perspective. See the


answer I'm giving you now is from many


Bible verses that reflect that idea and


it's not oh so that is his own opinion.


No, that's what we're talking about


biblical perspective. We don't have


personal opinions. We will run it


through scripture. So we for when


somebody say the Bible says the Bible


says it's not one verse.


That's why I try to distance myself from


from pastors who say things like I've


not been able to read the Bible cover to


cover. I'm not in you in that show of


shame. This is this is this is what I


do. This is the this is the calling upon


my life to be a man of God. I have to


read this book. I have read this book


more than any book on this earth. And I


love reading.


Bible school has started again. I've I


have read this book again cover to


cover.


There has never been a year in the last


12 years, this is the 13th year now of


L10 that I have not read the Bible at


least twice in a year. It is compulsory


that I read the Bible.


I can quote half the Bible off hand.


You keep reading it. Then you study


because this is the book. So when we


arguing when we are telling people that


the Bible does not say that they'll be


arguing. We say you have time because if


it's an argument let's argue the argue


well me I have time. Let's read all the


references they run. See that the person


is not really ready. Let's read all the


references because you cannot say the


Bible says without reading all the


references on that subject matter


because it's from all the references you


can say the Bible say because the Bible


say is not a verse the Bible say a


summary language that is teaching. So


when you are saying a biblical


perspective is that we have run this


thing through God's word not my emotion


and say as for me sh nobody can tell me


what I do with my money. Oh ma, you lie.


We can tell you what you do with your


money. If you cannot tell you, you are


not a child of God. Nothing like you


cannot be a child of God and we are


talking to you with God's word and you


are saying you cannot talk to me. We can


talk to you, sir. We can talk. Who are


you that we cannot talk to you? We can


talk to you with God's word because you


are supposed to be a Christian and a


Christian lives by God's word. So you


can't say that is Bible own. But as for


me and my house, sorry, we have you have


simply told us that you are canor of no


use in the local assembly. We should


mark them. That's why in the local


church you not take note of people based


on their obedience to God's word, their


obedience to the authority


of God's word and their obedience to the


spiritual authority over the assembly


which is the pastor and the pastorate


and the other. You observe people like


that that are unruly to that always have


something against mark people like that.


Paul says that you may know


the proof of him. You can prove people.


Amen.


>> Say as for me, I don't believe in honor.


All these things that they say honor


your father, honor your mother, this say


uh give honor. That is human worship. I


will not bend my head to anybody.


Just um


$300 I don't b head


you sir I will b to nobody cow word


I b my head to nobody the same way say


nobody can control me in this life you


that traffic light is controlling you


park


no nothing can control me do you know


what all those comes from hot it trended


in the covid year nobody can control me


nobody can control me when you say


things like that naturally We ought to


take you in an ambulance, run straight


to psychiatric hospital because once you


are somebody that cannot be controlled,


you are to be out of control is to be in


the psych word.


Even television have remote control is


put into everything created except you.


Why? Everything created has control put


into it. If not, how will you use it?


Nothing can nobody can control. Nothing


can control me. Nobody can all those


arrogance is common in society and then


you say that's not what Bible say they


have come again they want to be


controlling us you have a problem with


control what you have a problem with is


manipulation when the control and


manipulation become synonyms


go get a good test errors by Oxford own


better still maybe


webar


since he has some godly interpretation


of Some things maybe help you buy a good


taros on synonyms. Control and


manipulation are far. Can you put


control inside of manipulation? Yes. But


not that manipulation is manipulation is


to control somebody and you put add


those other sentences. Don't just say


because it is not control. It's not they


are not synonyms.


Manipulation is what you should be


against. Being coerced is what you


should be against.


not the word control.


So people have all their wonderful


views.


People have all their wonderful views.


The same reason why people see like a


question a brother asked yesterday in


our mode experience. Is it not enough?


Because generosity because you can get


to that place cuz that's how society


thinks. Like I said, you can't fault


people like that because that's how


society thinks. We are not, we don't


think the way society, that's why we


take the mode of Christ. We think


according we renew our mind. Romans


chapter 12, we read that last week. Be


not conformed to his but be transformed


by the renewing of your mind.


Patience is weakness to people. Say you


say you are patient, say you are a weak


man.


Selfcontrol is weakness. strength to


fruit of the spirit have become weakness


because the world we live in is governed


by darkness


and by darkness you should know that is


governed by elemental spirits of


darkness too. So they are fueling it


with their own philosophies.


So it looks like forgiveness is


weakness.


Forgiveness is a strength. That's why it


is so hard for you to forgive. That's


why it is easy to walk in unforgiveness.


It is harder to walk in forgiveness.


That's how you know it's a strength.


It is easy to stay hot.


It is harder to walk out of hot. That


one is that's how you know it's a


strength. But now the logic is not set


properly. So you see that it now looks


like forgiveness because when those


influences are involved, you will not


even know what is proper logic again.


What I did for you is arrange the logic


back. Look at which one is harder. It is


so easy to stay hot.


But once you start telling you to


forgive you say no you can't tell me


that you can't tell me. I thought you


say it is easy. Since that is the hard


one that's the one that is called a


strength now because it involve


developing myself. The other one is not


involved myself. It is is like breit. I


just I will deal with you forever and


ever. I will never let this matter slide


forever and ever. That one is easy. But


to let it go, that one required me to go


inside to be to live according to my


true values, to live according to who I


am.


That is strength.


That's when we return the logic back to


proper logic.


But when those dark spirits are involved


in a philosophy or in an idea, it will


look normal.


Because there's more to life than


rational thinking.


There's more to life than


logical debating.


There's more to life than logical


debating.


Even as I'm preaching, you say pastor is


just preaching his own. Me I will do


what I want to do. Those things are all


sponsored by dark spirits.


As we are preaching, I blowing on your


eyes.


Don't mind him. Don't mind him. When you


go home, do what you like.


>> Oh, live by God's word. Amen.


You know,


if not for Genesis chapter 4 that God


said to Cain see light at your door


would have just looked like Cain just


imagine killing his brother. John first


John now develops that and say Kane is


of the wicked one. So we see that ah so


Kane was hearing voices. Yes. So but you


will not see literally like Kane my boy


your brother his own is too much


and him end him. Doesn't work like that.


But there was a there was an influence.


>> There was an influence. And that's why


we thought unseen forces the other time.


So never you think that there is no


unseen forces in things. In fact, when


things look like there's no unseen


force, know that there's a force behind


it. Is is is trying to wash his hand and


say I'm innocent. I'm not inspiring


people. You are inspiring people. Is


there are spirits that are inspiring


ideologies.


Amen.


And that's what is called hollow and


deceptive philosophy. Let see to it that


no one takes you captive. Don't be


kidnapped


by worldly philosophies and ideas. So


many Christians have been kidnapped have


been spoiled


rotten to the core.


That's a spoiled Christian.


A captive to worldly ideologies and


philosophies.


A captive. a slave


rudeness and stomach. Yesterday we


closed we were going and so somebody


just parked and blocked the road. Horn


horn horn is just I said to I said this


is how people are in society. Then when


you bundle him and the car and he never


sees his car again say I not know that


this is not somebody I'm to cross. Are


you supposed to be like that? I thought


you just block the road like that then


say the country is not working. Are you


not the country so that it's not


working? This is this is this is the the


monster in society. So that does not


know what law and order means.


We have normalized those things because


we say ah let them be. Now we cannot let


it be. Is those letting those kind of


things be that allows disorder to be the


norm. Chaos is now seen as normal


thinking. No. No. The same reason all of


you who drive car once you horn to allow


the person to be careful that you are


coming they get angry with you. Is this


are this normal people


how who gets angry that because the way


you are you are being careless I'm


drawing your attention said now you get


car


is anger bitterness


many things have been worked into the


fabric of society today is the same


thing you see on social media that


people are perpetually hot


emotionally


emotionally irritated or you cannot tell


me that everybody body is ready to fight


boil.


So calm down think you can't tell me


that.


So I have my own view. I have my own


view that your view should never you are


permitted to have your views but your


view should never go against the word of


God.


So if it's something that God's word can


allow us think properly about


take the God's word properly thinking


about it position did you get what we


are saying that is what we are


emphasizing in this biblical perspective


of life that is how I live life


which you are getting into that is how I


live life I live life.


Some people can't live life with joy.


Say, "Ah, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's


okay to be sad. Sadness is normal." So


it look like you are old. Say, "Ah, was


it happy? Why you happy? You see it? Why


you just happy? So what do you want me


to do? Be sad?" Say, "No, not really."


So why is happiness shocking you?


That's I'm telling you some things have


been shaped into the fabric of society


that it looks like you are happy say why


are you happy so is it that my norm my


normal is supposed to be sadness


that's how much we can be captive to the


society way of thinking the same way


society marginalize the female and even


some pastors that cannot interpret Bible


have brought Bible into it and Say Paul


said I do not permit a woman to speak.


Yes. Now she does not have mouth. She


cannot speak.


Women should not talk. Should not talk.


He said no. Women should never climb the


podium to preach because you cannot tell


me because Apostle Paul you are using


the wrong person for the argument. The


person that use women most is who you


are using to support a position because


of they have a bias in their mind. So


they went into the Bible to look for it.


What first Corinthians 14 is saying very


innocent chapter which I've explained


over the years. The word speak is used


several times


has its own context. You took it


outside. The word speak is used over 20


times in that chapter. You now decided


that speak now means something different


from what speak has been meaning speak


which has been supernatural utterance.


You gave it your own meaning.


If he's not allowing a woman to speak


supernaturally but male and female


should be able to bless life. I said


women can prophesy before. Okay. Should


you have even the same chap even in the


same book some chapters back he had used


the fact that women can prophesy. So is


to calm down to interpret the Bible. So


let me use this one as an example. This


woman on let's read it from the Bible


and see the text that people use to say


women should not


let's read that uh the woman should be


silent and see how simple Bible


interpretation can be.


1 Corinthians 14


because why is even now an issue is


because people are not normal society


that's why they want to put down women


why should you if you are putting down


women put down men also now say what do


you mean what do you mean men what a man


is talking the woman should not talk


this is a Christian


from where I am from a woman which woman


a woman crawls on her knees to come and


meet a Man,


you have been damaged. Your culture,


your family damaged you. May God repair


you.


We have amended it for you.


Which kind of


and it's not even now


wife submit to your own husband. Oh, no.


So once you just see a man, you go down


because there is the king, the emperor


is coming, the male in society. And that


monster of an idea is now being brought


into the church because the gatekeepers,


the pastors who should know better found


a way to fit into the Bible and say that


society idea is okay.


I say, "Oh, this is normal. So this is


normal." But that's not how from the


beginning male and female created he


them. It's not an afterthought. In fact,


one pastor said the woman is an


afterthought and everybody was smiling.


He


hearing.


Can the woman be an afterthought?


Because all these things come because


that pastor has his own heart, has his


own issue with women too.


bring it use it to frame ideas let


people let no we we don't interpret


Bible like that so we say biblical


perspective of life is actually another


word for it is sound doctrine


perspective of life which is the reason


why we don't joke with sound doctrine


it's not so that God will hear our


prayer it's not so that we can move in


power no without sound doctrine you can


move in power you can God will hear your


prayer but sound doctrine is for your


worship is for accuracy your living


outside sound doctrine you are not


accurate in how you live as a Christian


there will always be inaccuracies in


your life


that somebody else can say this is not


normal but it's normal my Bible tells me


no is your Bible upside down the Bible


you are reading upside down


amenians


14 verse 20 uh where is that place again


uh 1 Corinthians 14:34 Four,


let your women keep silence in the


churches, for it is not permitted unto


them to speak. They are commanded to be


under obedience as also seed the law.


Which law is there any law of Moses like


that? None. So we would come to which


law he's talking about. Let your women


keep silent in the churches for it is


not permitted unto them to speak.


First issue


I want to understand what this text


mean.


I just started interpreting it as I read


it. So let your women keep silent. Let


what was he saying before? You did not


read. What is he saying after? You did


not read.


Then bringing that into the Bible. The


Bible was not written in chapter and


verses. It is the translators over time


which started from the 16th century that


we started having a Bible in chapters


and verses.


Chapters and verses. So the chapter and


verses was not put there by the original


writers. It was put there to make it


easy for you to get a flow.


So as we have said over the years, you


must read everything to get the import


or you will not read it with paragraphs.


Paragraph is is not the space you shift


inside and you not. So where the line of


thought begins. So you should be able to


trace where is the line of thought


beginning here. The line of thought


begins from the very first chapter from


the very first verse of the chapter and


that first verse of that chapter takes


you back to chapter 13. We take you back


to chapter 12 where he started talking


about spirituals. So first Corinthians


14 the paragraph begins in ver in


chapter 12. Now concerning spiritual


gifts brethren I will not have you to be


ignorant. You know you were Gentiles


carried away from these dumb idols.


Wherefore I give you to understand that


no man speaking by the spirit of God can


call Jesus our cost. No one can say


Jesus is Lord but by the Holy Ghost.


There are diversities of gifts the same


spirit. Difference of administration,


diversity of operation, the same God


which workketh all in all. Verse seven,


but the manifestation of the spirit is


given to every man to profit with her.


For to one is given by the spirit the


word of wisdom to another the word of


knowledge by the same spirit. He ends


12:31. Covert earnestly the best gifts.


Show I unto you a more excellent


way. Chapter 13, love.


Talked about love.


Chapter 14, pursue love.


Desire spiritual gifts. He uses


the same context. There's a flow.


So you have to read everything.


Amen. Amen.


>> So when we now start from the chapter 14


which is what I want to show you


follow after charity which is pursue


after love and desire spiritual soul


because that is the more excellent way.


So the excellent way, the motive, M O T


I V, the motive for spirituals should be


love. Because I want to bless people. I


want to comfort, edify, strengthen


people. Not because I want to prove a


point. Not because I want to prove a


point. Not because I want to prove a


point. All right? Not because I want to


prove a point.


So he says, "Covert earnestly the best


gifts, yet show unto you a more


excellent way." So he uses love. The


love is the more excellent way. It is


the route unto spirituals. Amen. All


right. Then he says follow that fine


girl. Charity. Follow after charity.


Follow after love. He could have just


used the word love but he uses the word


charity for a reason. Because every time


you hear the word charity, your mind


goes to another person because you know


charity is the love shown towards


others. So follow that love you show


towards others.


So the translators I love the fact that


use charity same Greek word agape but


they use the word charity there which is


okay because you it immedately shows you


that it's unto others follow after love


towards others even desire cuz that's


how you should desire spiritual gifts


that is the motive not to prove a point


not to pepper them not to make money


that's not why you should want to be


supernatural as a believer or live


supernaturally no it's to be a blessing


to people


but rather that you may prophesy rather


there is not instead that's KJV 1611


grammar so rather there is the Greek


word malon much more because prophecy is


part of the spiritual that's common


sense to see it cannot be saying instead


prophecy is part of the spiritual so it


cannot be saying desire spiritual


instead desire prophecy prophecy is part


of the spiritual so it cannot be instead


so that's old English so the word rather


that there is much more so much more to


prophesy. Why much more to prophesy?


Because prophecy is the best gift in the


local church. For one reason, we will


not always be sick that we need power


gifts. We always need a miracle.


We don't need to know our mother, our


father's name, what happened yesterday.


But what we will always need part time


is edification, comfort, which prophecy


or the what we call the the


utrance gifts. Tongues intervention and


prophecy. We will always need tongues


intermission and prophecy. Every day we


will need


what the Lord is saying. We will need


the comfort, the edification, the


exaltation that comes from knowing that


the Lord is with us. We need direction


every day. Are you following? So it


calls that the Christ turn gift. It has


greater use within the local church.


That's the word best. It's not saying


out of the nine gifts, which one is the


best. That the Bible does not read with


human comparison and ambition. Who is


the greatest among us? Jesus said who


wants to be great? Let him be the least.


So we don't think in that order. Bible


will never encourage competition. So you


cannot say what is the best gift out of


the nine. Let them compete. They can


never be competing. That is an ungodly


way of thinking. So Paul could not have


that kind of mindset of thinking.


Instead he says coveret earnestly the


best. The best the Greek language does


not have superlative or comparative. So


there's no good better best. The Greek


word for better is saying Greek word for


best. So desire


coveret the kryon gift the gift that has


the wildest use the greatest application


and yes sure I want to you a more


excellent way so part time. So the


elasticity of that text will be twofold


part time if healing is the best gift is


the what is majorly in need what I need


right now somebody's dying I don't need


ultrance I need to raise him back I need


to heal him I would that there will be a


gu best gift part time however this text


now has what we call a situational


context which is why there are


principles for interpretation it is


dealing with the local church. So he


helps you see the best gift he's talking


about. Not because they are competing or


which one is better. But widest use now


say within the local church.


We all need to hear from God. We need to


know what God is saying. So he says


prophecy will now be the gift that have


the widest application.


Are you following?


>> All right.


So that is that first Corinthians 14.


Follow after charity and desire


spiritual gifts. For he that speaketh he


already started with the word speak. For


he that speaketh.


For he that speaketh


in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto


men. Two to two


but unto God. For no man understanded


him. How beat in the spirit he speaketh


mystery. Speak is used how many times in


one verse?


>> How many times?


>> How many times?


>> Thank you. So I've already answered it


for you Abby. Three times. Okay. And we


are dealing with speaker. Just one verse


already has three. You see that is more


than that 30 times I told you because if


you even add the context of pray which


is also because when you pray you don't


you speak cuz the the chapter is a


chapter of communication so the writer


because he's not alive now physically


that we can go to him and say Paul what


did you mean so we will critique what he


said that is how interpretation is done


because we cannot give the Bible meaning


we can only take meaning from it So what


did he say? How did he use his word? So


we can get oh this is what he was


saying. This is what he meant. Because


if he's can ask himself what did you


mean by this? He would have just


clarified. So that's context. That's why


afterward you will now do what is called


corroboration. Interextual


corroboration. Outside this text is


there another place where he said the


same thing. And in what context then did


this man have this as a lifestyle


practice? You now see that nobody names


more women in ministry than Paul. So it


can't be what he's saying.


The same man that say when it comes to


spiritual is neither male nor female. Is


it that is confused? So that's why we


must get the context which is very


simple to see.


Verse three, he that prophesieth


that's already speaking but is now like


toology. He that prophesy speaketh not


onto men because when you prophesying


you obviously speaking. So we can remove


prophesy there. He that speaketh


speaketh unto men to edification. So


that prophesies speaking too. Ab all


right but we can still leave it as


speak. He that prophesto


men to edification,


exaltation and comfort to build people


up. You need to be built up.


Healing is you are healed in your body.


But built up what promotes spiritual


growth is more in the area of so this


word will encourage you, edify you,


comfort you in that towards Christian


growth. So he uses edification,


exaltation and comfort. Verse four, he


that speaketh in unknown tongue edifies


himself. He that prophesied edifies the


church. Are you following? Verse five,


he you speak. Verse six, he used speak


because of time we'll just be running


it. Verse seven, he now uses an example


to explain that different sounds come


from different instruments.


He uses that to


verse 9.


So likewise he except he alter by tongue


is it to be understood, how shall it be


known what is spoken. So in other words,


there must be an interpretation because


there is sound even to the trumpet for


people to pray for battle. So he uses


that example 7 and 8 it verse 10. So


what I'm doing for you is what is called


an exegetical explanation of the whole


chapter.


Just being quick verse 11. Therefore if


I know not the meaning of the voice I


shall be unto him that speaketh a


barbarian. So this is the reason why we


must interpret tongues when we are


speaking in tonesues to somebody not to


God. I've always used that example. You


are speaking to God and you interpret


say oh sh


these tonges I said now means you are a


mighty God.


You notice I said salab


from the sound lord it means ah that's


insanity. We are not interpreting


tongues to god now. No is when I use


tongues to speak to you. Just like if


you can't hear ebo and somebody speaks


ebo to you, it looks like what is this


person saying, you will need an


interpreter. If not, you will be


sounding barbaric. It's not because the


language is barbaric. It's that you


don't know what it means. If somebody


speaks qual with you, you will not


understand it except you can interpret.


Somebody speaks Canori to you, speak


thief, speaks uh any of the languages in


Euroba, Bina,


speaks Chinese that we always say


chinuan, it means something. It's not


chinua,


but it sounds barbaric to you, but when


it is interpreted, you know what he's


saying. So you don't interpret it. He he


speaks unto men which is what he


emphasized in the chapter


verse 5. I would that you all speak with


tongues, but much more that you


prophesied. For greater, you already


know greater


greater for the for greater for a wider


reach is he that prophesied than he that


speak in tong except he interprets that


the church may receive edifying not


greater I'm greater than you are a small


boy. That kind of thinking I told you is


ungodly. You cannot be expecting in the


Bible is I'm greater than you. know now


is that when you are speaking in


tonesues you are edifying yourself. When


you are using tongues to speak to


somebody else then it equals prophecy


because prophecy is utterance in a known


language that edifies. Tongues is


utterance in an unknown language. So you


can't use that to speak to somebody


without interpreting. So you can only


use that to edify yourself. But if you


are using that to speak to somebody, you


must interpret tongues.


Getting it?


>> Yes, sir. All right.


Even so ye, for as much as you are


zillious of spiritual, seek that you


accept the def of the church. Wherefore


let him that speaketh on tong pray that


he may interpret. That means the word


pray there is not oh father heavenly


father I pray now. No let him that


speaketh on tongue


one to that's the word pray there. The


same way you say I pray you tell me your


name. It's not I need down.


You know the word praise old English. So


in that is not let him want to


interpret.


Then he says for if I pray in an unknown


tongues because it's possible to pray.


So he use the word pray and speak. You


don't interpret praying in tong. But you


are not praying to your neighbor. You


speak to your neighbor but you are


praying you pray unto God. You are not


praying to your neighbor. All right? So


it says


so verse 18 I thank my God I speak with


tongues more than you also in other


words it's important to speak with


tongues but in church I rather speak


five words with my understanding that by


my voice I might teach others why


because of the interpretation so I will


not be using tongues to speak to people


I would rather just teach or interpret


what I'm saying be not children in


understanding How be not children


understanding how be in malice be


children understanding be men now this


where I'm going so the word speak is in


the whole context is that clear enough


because of time so that I don't stay too


long cuz it will take hours interpreting


verse by verse so the whole chapter is


on speaking speaking speaking we now


read verse


34 if you recall


so let's bring out the words in verse 34


let your women keep silent


So let's look at that. That word silent


where was it used before is the Greek


word sig. Was it used


in the first Corinthians 14? Yes, it was


used in verse 28 and verse 30. The same


word. So let's see who is keeping silent


in verse 28. This is simple


interpretation.


If there be no interpreter, if there be


no interpreter, let him keep silence in


the church. Oh, this is talking about


anybody that is speaking in tongues. If


he's not going to interpret, if there is


not the function of interpretation


present, when say if there be no


interpreter, if there is no function of


interpretation present, that means if he


doesn't seek to interpret,


can somebody else interpret your


tongues? Yes, but that's not the idea.


You spoke it, interpret your tongue. So


when you say if there be an interpreter


he's using interpreter


to is not as a noun but as a verb


function just like we say apostle is a


function prophet is a function so if


there be no interpretation function let


him keep silent that's what it mean by


if there be no interpreter if you have


my book on simplicity of the prophetic I


explained every verse of 14 all right so


you should you should already have that


before


So verse 28, if there be no interpreter


now, who is the So verse 26, how is it


them bedren when you come together?


Everyone, everyone in church, everyone


when you come together, the bedren there


is made up of male and female or is it


not? Everyone of you had a psalm, a


doctrine, a tongue and interpretation.


Let all things be done unto edifying.


Okay. If any man speak in unknown


tongue, the word man here anthropos, not


an not the male, not the male gender. If


any human being, if any human speak in


an unknown tongue, let it be by two or


at most by theory.


And that by cause, let one interpret.


What does two and three mean order? Let


them take turns, which we do when we


have a holy ghost meeting or those kind


of meetings where we call people say su


me too. Say let's do it turn by turn. So


it's a two or three. So let them take


turns. All right. So so that there's no


disorder


and let one interpret. If there be no


interpretation,


if there be no interpreter, let him keep


silence in the church. Let him speak to


himself and to God. So let him keep


silent.


So let him keep what he wants to say.


Are you seeing it?


Because the whole idea of the


interpretation is to edify.


So if what he's going to say will not be


interpreted because the essence of the


interpretation he told you let all be


done onto edifying abition


then there will be no edifying. So he


says if there been no let him keep


silent let him hold on to what he's


saying because they taking their so he


say sir no no sir the thing current is


moving me say calm down is enough so


that's letting keep saying and keep what


you want to say though if I don't say it


now the church will not be prepared for


the battle go and sit down


letting keep you know some people can be


say no the really reveal something to


I sit down


can manipulate people with spirituals.


We are doing by say he said no thing


entered me. He entered me. So it's we


that will not now have figured out what


you want to say because people don't.


So he said let him keep silent. Then he


goes further. Let the prophet not office


of a prophet there is used as a verb not


as a noun.


Let the prophesiah,


that's what he's calling prophet. Let


the person that is prophesying is what


is calling prophet. These words is so


sad because we live in a titled driven


age. That's why you see one 22 year old


boy is an apostle that got born again


three years ago. But because he can


use osmosis of the dimension,


he's an apostle sent to straighten the


body of Christ.


strength to cry on on the street of


social media for the church to be


corrected because social media is where


the body of Christ receives correction.


We're not sure this one will continue


the faith. We need to give him any every


minister must be given at least 5 to 10


years to to know if they will last or


this one is wind that brought him so


that wind will blow him away. We don't


know if you have come to say or if it's


hunger that brought you to ministry. You


already speak to the body of Christ and


instructing us in the way that we should


go


from your YouTube video


because that's why just to be popular is


easy does not mean that God is behind


it.


Any fool can be popular.


There's fame that comes from God. There


is fame that man can orchestrate. The


fame you orchestrate will put you into


trouble. If media makes you, media will


break you.


Bishop did not become popular because of


media


that the jail did not become popular


because of media. It is proof in the


life of you can't cancel them with your


doctrinal accuracy. I say I cry out all


these people don't know Bible


see you. They have proof in the life of


people. You cannot be cancelled. They


have gone beyond being cancelled.


Don't like pastor. You cannot cancel


him. You're not there when he was


raising people for years. Has paid his


dues. You can't be canceling people that


have roots. That's why they fight you on


social media for trying to cancel their


their papa.


Whether they are in error or not, people


don't care. You cannot cancel he that


cannot be cancelled.


All right? because they have an a legion


an army that's following. You can't be


counseling people because they abuse


structure. You may not like this kind of


structure but the structure all the


same.


Are you following? All right.


So it says let the prophesia not the not


so it's not title let the prophesiah the


prophet function one who is serving as


that prophet in that meeting in that


prophet function as we are prophesying


one by one so let that prophesiah speak


two or three and let the other judge


there should be the main prophet just


like we do in our meeting the person


that is anchoring the service let him


put it in order verse 30 if anything be


revealed to another that seated Ed by


let the first hold his that word hold


his place is the same word silence.


So you see that if you were reading the


text then later that same word is not


used for a woman. You should not give it


your own meaning. Okay. So we have seen


that word silence is to hold your peace.


Keep what you want to say in your heart.


Don't say it.


Then he says let your women are back to


34. So go back. This is how intervention


is done. Observation, intervention


application. That's a three-step process


of Bible study. So you observe, let your


women,


not let all women. So he's speaking to


the women in Corinth. Let your women. So


again, we need to know what is the


history here. Is the same church of


Corinth. He say they should tie their


hair which we have turned to scarf. They


tie your hair. there is beyond the


authority of your husband. It has


nothing to do with scarf.


Has to do with c. Say can a man wear c


can can a man can a woman which is all


those ones. I beg leave your hair. Let


it let us see the beauty of that god


created. I beg if you want to tie it not


bad it's still fine too. It can be


fashion but don't be tying hair and make


your go and be smelly because of Jesus


Christ and say his holiness you are


doing. Paul made that clear in chapter 7


chapter 11. We have no such custom in


any of the


there's no custom like that except in


your own church and you can also cancel


that man that t in their church you


can't cancel him he has built


consistency over the years whether you


explain the Bible verse correctly you


cannot cancel him stop canceling people


so chapter 11 let's just for the sake of


that


every woman that prayeth or prophesies


with her head uncovered dishonor her


head. That has to do with you are you


you are too stuck with her tie so you


cannot see what he's saying. You


dishonoring her tie. No dishonor her


head. So you're talking about honor and


dishonor within marriage that a woman


cannot just dress the way she like cuz


she she would dishonor her husband. A


wife that by woman not every young girl


I beg wife. wife. So every time you see


woman, they remove woman, put wife. A


wife should be conscious of how she


dresses because he can bring dishonor to


her husband. So can my husband tell me


how to dress? Yes. So except you that is


ungodly wife. But if he's godly wife,


husband should be able to tell you


because this has brought quarry in some


homes because you now know who you


marry. How can a wife be angry that the


husband say no this is going to make me


look bad to look like I'm not taking


care of you to look like I'm for


looseness. Say no, I dress the way I


like. No, this will make me look bad. It


will look like I have no people


authority in my home. Let them talk. Ah,


is this how you brandish me in society


say doesn't mean


because of largeness of heart you


forgave it not because it was not your


power to demand it. You let it slide


first time, second time, third time.


Baba, you not look before you marry say


this woman not independent woman


because independent women should not


marry just as you should not marry an


independent man because this is how we


create monsters in society. Any woman


that that hates submission should not


marry. Stay single man.


Enjoy your singlehood because marriage


is a functional thing and for a


functional thing there has to be order.


Is not God trying to manipulate women or


deal with women or gom o r o d e r o is


the reason why the husband is the head


of the home


or that just like in an organization


is not the gate man that saying say


somebody come say come now why are you


going up I have the final say in this


organization. Uh-uh.


Now poverty go kill the organization.


There has to be an authority who has the


financing in this organization.


Obviously that will be the boss, the


CEO.


So he says within the marriage context,


the husband is the head. He says that


and he says it's a god-given authority.


So this is how God structured it.


Chapter 11 verse one, be followers of me


even as I also am Christ. So follow me


because I follow Christ. Follow me


because I am of Christ. Not


I've explained that first question 11:1


several times. People use it to say all


manner of things.


No man is perfect in the sense of he


will have no failing. He will want for


strength, want for ideas, lack ability


to do some things. So if I'm follow them


to the degree that every action of the


is of Christ, you will never follow


anybody.


1 Corinthians 11:1 when it say be


followers of me as I also of Christ move


the arm arm is italicized in your Bible


it says follow me because I follow


Christ so what it takes to follow


somebody is to find out does this person


follow the Lord Jesus not if every


action look Jesus the author finisher of


your faith no human being can be that


perfect example so don't bring that into


the text because that's not what he's


saying so he says We learn from the Lord


Jesus. The same way pastors, leaders are


supposed to be an example of that.


Verse two, now I praise you, brethren,


that you remember me in all things and


keep the ordinances as I deliver them to


you. But I would have you know that the


head of every man is Christ.


Are you there?


>> The head of every man is who?


The head of every man is Christ. Which


man is that? The male man. The head of


every male man. That's the man. The


gender man.


Not anthropos. Not humanity. So the


head of every man is Christ. And the


head of the woman


is the man. Are you seeing it? And the


head of Christ is God. Now he said the


head of the woman is the man. You see


speaking authority. He's not saying the


woman head is not God. All human beings


authority is God. But this man and woman


yes already man there is husband. Woman


there is wife


because his husband and wife function


that he's dealing with in the chapter.


Every husband


praying or prophesying having his head


covered dishonoreth his head has nothing


to do with hair tie. So every man must


be in honor to the authority of Christ


over his life. It has to do with head.


He's just using covering hair as an


example because of the culture of the


day which is writing. Because the


culture of the day had people covering


their head. Just like if you see the


Arabic women, they put that hijab and so


over their head. It's not all. It's a


sign. It means something. Covering head


means something in cultures. So he uses


that culture to explain something that


is a believer's culture way of doing


things. He did not know which he did


give a disclaimer. He did not know that


we're going to use it to say everywhere


to pray. We don't form doctrine like


that. You cannot deceive us with 50


years in ministry. Sir,


we doctrine is not a motive. You cannot


be saying how I feel. Sorry sir, it may


be paining you that we are correcting


you. But truth is truth. You can do


nothing against the truth.


There are so many texts of people


praying the bible from Genesis to


revelation. We have women who were


praying. We didn't see and Hannah she


was praying. She heard you cannot


deceive us sir and tell us because we


have too many examples of people who


prayed in the Bible and they was they


did not cover their hair.


If is an isolated statement now we can


fall into that error but too many Anna


came into the temple she not cover


one prophesied over Jesus and Jesus said


Jesus not speak as a baby say you cannot


do this cover your hair you are trying


to to prophesy about the the the messiah


not do that


did not cover her Okay,


you are all looking at me. We don't have


women praying the Bible


>> and prophesying. There are so many


examples of women praying and


prophesying. Deborah did not tie her


hair and Deborah tying her hair. No, but


he said Deborah, the wife of Lapidos,


showing you that she is in submission to


her husband


yet a minister of God.


There have been women in ministry from


Genesis to Malachi. as pre-reservation


of Jesus. How much more postres of Jesus


now remove women from ministry? Your


Jesus, you know too much


be creating a monster of a Jesus. Then


that's not what the text are saying.


Every man praying or prophesying with


the head covered dishonoreth his head.


Every woman that pray or prophesy with


her head covered. He has already told


you what head mean in verse three. He's


not expecting you to be confused to her.


All right.


Every woman that prayed to prophesy with


her head uncovered


dishonored


her head


for that is even all one as if she were


shaving. So we know when people shave in


those ancient time they are in shame


because like when you mourn when you are


mourning somebody you shave all your


head to show that you are in mourning.


Then he says, "If the woman be not


covered, let her also be shown.


For it is a shame for a woman, the woman


there is wife, not wife, the wife to be


shown or shaven, let her be covered.


For a man indeed ought not to cover his


head. For as much as he is the image and


glory of God within the context of


marriage, he images God as the head, as


the steward in that union, not saying


that the female is not image of God.


Remember, there's a context. But the


woman is the glory of the man. So within


the marriage context, the woman will now


radiate the authority. The man is


stewarding in the home. So both of them


are obviously stewarding the same thing


in their home. But the man should be the


authority. the woman should steal all


that authority down to the children and


the whole home. That's what he's talking


about. For a man indeed ought not to


cover his head. So that was that text.


Verse eight, if the man for the man for


the husband is not of the wife, but the


wife is of the husband.


That's why the father handed the


father-in-law handed the woman to the


man. The woman is now of the man. be you


are all quiet into the I'm giving you


simple interpretation in modern English


then he says neither was the man created


neither was the man the husband created


for the wife but the wife for the man he


gives the example of what it means verse


10 so that in case it's not clear for


this cause for this reason because


Because this purpose ought the woman to


have power on her head


because


of the angels. Engel there is a function


terminology.


Nevertheless, neither is the man without


the woman. Neither is the woman without


the man. So he quickly corrects any


preconceived notion you may be having.


He said, "Nevertheless, the man


without the woman, Nevertheless, neither


is the man without the woman, neither


the woman without the man." So in the


Lord, there when I said the woman is


verse 9 is verse 11 is to explain verse


9 properly in case there is not clear.


Neither was the man created for the


woman for but the woman for the man. So


the woman was created for the man. Then


he says in verse 11, of course you have


sense to know that is women that give


birth to men too.


Men give birth to. So he's bringing it


that is not this is not an anger text.


Nevertheless, neither is the man without


the woman. Neither the woman without the


man. Both of them need each other. If


not there, there is no procreation.


There's no stewarding anything.


So that's for as the woman is of the man


even so is the man also by the woman. It


repeats that again. So his woman is also


because without the woman no man will be


born into the world. The man that will


later become a husband of course he was


also born by a woman.


But all things are of God. So he say


judging yourself is it calmly that a


woman pray unto God uncovered?


Does not even nature itself teach you


that if a man have long is a shame to


him but if a woman that's nature there


is within their culture. If any man seem


to be contentious verse 16 the word man


now is now anthropos. If any human being


seem to be contentious we have no such


custom neither in the churches of God.


So in other words, there is no custom in


church about hair tying or not no hair


tying.


Now in this I declare unto you, I praise


you that you come together not for the


better but for the worst. So what is


trying to create is order. Now the


church in Corinth had an issue. There


was a what you call matters in Corinth.


The church in Corinth had an issue. The


wives because women were seen as


secondhand citizens.


sex material in that patriarchal world


not in the Bible that world that


timeline that timeline. So women a man


could could pack them like you are


packing property have five 10 20.


So where you say the woman belongs to


the other room. So they had that


patriarchal word where


so when the women were now getting born


again they immediately knew their


authority and identity that in Christ


Jesus male and female the same. God


created male and female as his image.


We'll read chapter one shortly for those


who are new so that you can get what we


are saying properly.


So the women began to know that ah I am


not inferior. I may be inferior in


society but I'm not. So they began to


use that to revenge every man that has


brought me down in this life. I'll


pepper them now because in Christ Jesus


we are the same. So is that is the


disorder division disorder that he's


trying to correct in chapter 11 which he


doesn't end chapter 11 he brings it back


to chapter 14 and says


because the issue the wives now also in


spiritual as we prophesying say how many


persons have a word from the lord for us


here maybe as we we do normally which


you have an example of when we have


those holy ghost meeting believers


meeting


a wife comes out and points to her


husband and say you over there the


husband gets up this time it's you over


there it's not my husband you over there


the get up so the Lord would have you


know so she use prophecy to settle


family score


you she used


prophecy so maybe the husband had not be


giving money to her regularly so say the


Lord would have you know that a man


ought to be responsible for the Lord is


saying you should be honorable people


there are amounts not to give a woman


say what is happening here now I do not


permit a woman to speak like this is not


edifying she should not to be under


authority as says the law of marriage


that a woman is under the authority of


her husband say I do not permit a woman


to you that's why you see it in another


place to you authority over the man


don't use prophetic to now be the reason


why you want to bring your husband Now,


don't you have homes? Settle this issue


at home.


Chapter 14. People are looking at me.


Let's read is in your own Bible. 34.


If they will learn anything, that word


learn is the word materno. If they will


come to know anything, if there's if


there's something, let your wives keep


silent in the churches. Silence remember


was used


in 28 and verse 30. Don't give it your


own meaning. Don't take it outside the


context. Remember we are still


prophesying. So this is a woman


prophesying. So let your women keep


silence. So in their prophesying let


them hold their peace. Why? Now he gives


you the reason for it is not permitted


unto them to speak. Speak how? Speak in


that manner.


But they are commanded to be under


obedience under what obedience that's


the word submit to their husbands as the


law of marriage states that's the


husband and the wife union the order the


the the nomos the word law order so


according to the order of marriage the


husband the wife is under the husband


then it says if they will learn the word


learn there is not Bible study class the


word learn there is to come to No matter


in that context if because that word len


let also show you before you turn len to


bible study see how len is used in the


same chapter 14 don't give bible words


your own meaning say ah but l s is you


go to school to learn who is doubting


that verse 31 he had used it before and


all may prophesy one by one that all may


learn that all may be comforted are you


seeing the word learn because when I


prophesy to you do you come to know


something you know what I have said to


you now that's what he mean by learn


it's not h teach me word teach me word


you know you are my husband you are my


bible study coordinator that's not what


he's talking about


if they will learn anything they will


come to know anything let them ask their


husband at home


for it's a shame for a woman to speak in


the church is there a context he should


not it is not fair for How many chapters


have been be using speak, prophesy,


edify? He does not he's talking to


intelligent people. The church in comet


are not dafted door people. He cannot


have to add every statement. They should


be able to take his statement


contextually because it is the audience


he's speaking to.


Just like he said Jesus gave the m


the bread the Jesus gave the disciples


to the multitude. You should know that


the multitude did not bite the


disciples. When he said Jesus gave the


disciples to the multitude in Matthew,


the disciples gave the bread to the


multitude. Not that the multitude were


eating the disciples. Is he horror


movie?


So there's ellips is omission. So you


omit what to save space for? You omit


you're not omitting the sense. You are


simply omitting the word in the grammar


so that because the understanding is not


lost. That's what they were doing there


big


because he had why did he bring verse 34


because he said God is not the author of


confusion but of peace as in all the


churches of the saints author of


confusion confusion God is not for chaos


for disorder. So he says as I've said


this other matter quick let your wives


because it's in the context of let's not


do things in a chaotic matter in a


chaotic manner.


Now


that's the end of that. There's a


contest of speak there.


So it's in using


authority. Now Genesis chapter 1.


Quickly turn your Bibles. Genesis


chapter 1.


Cannot use the Bible to put down any


gender.


Genesis 1:26.


And God said, "Let us make man in our


image after our likeness." Let us make


humanity, not male. Let us make humanity


in our image after our likeness. Let us


make humanity. Humanity is that word man


there. Verse 27. So God created humanity


in his own image. In the image of God


created he him. Male and female created


he them. So God created male and


not and after


male and female created he them. So the


male and the female are image of God.


The male is not superior to the female


as image of God. The female is not


inferior to the male as image of God.


Both of them are image of God. Are you


following?


That is where equal comes from. Equal to


be God's man.


Are you following? So, oh sir, that


means we believe in equality. Why we not


believe in equality? But again, what is


equality? Because as life goes forward,


we are all human beings. But we are all


not having the same result in our


living. We will all now become unequal.


Because they no book pass somebody that


they find past person that they strong


past person that they get connection.


Are you following? We will now be seeing


the unequality.


So as it involves living then as it


involves function you will see


difference. But how did God create male


and female created them? Then we now


bring chapter two where the woman was


made. now which is a another hard work


for people to see because over the years


ri my missing rib my missing rib my


missing rib has not allowed people to


think Bible study because ancient


biology did not even understand rib how


much more rib cage they could not have


been thinking of 12


bone marrow they cannot be thinking of


all of that that word rib used in


Genesis chapter 2 not Tesla or cellar t


s E L A is used for the side of a


building.


The word deep sleep is not to be


snoring. I know you want the Bible to be


the first for everything. The Bible uh


the first anesthesia is in the Bible.


The first surgery is in the Bible. The


first headache is in the Bible. The


first malaria is in the Bible.


Everything must be the Bible for your


Bible study life to be complete. Don't


do that with the Bible. The Bible should


not be a science textbook. Neither


should be an archaeology textbook.


Neither should it be. The Bible should


be what it is. So we say let the Bible


be what it is an ancient text


pre-science not against science


pre-science and a premodern text


written with the brilliance and


intelligence of the day just like when


you want to write letter in the village


and your grandmother wants to sell to


her son in Germany in Italy


in Spain


you can pronounce it now we know I'm you


know I'm just


She will find somebody the village that


can write letter. The thought her own


but the writing is somebody. Why do you


think the biblical writers wrote and it


was not intelligent and you see how the


book you they need to be intelligent to


interpret them? Give you stop that now.


So we have taught that which is what we


teach in Bible school setting that there


is editing in the Bible because it was


edited to make sense grammatically. So


whether they were farmers, fishermen is


not the issue you because it needs to be


a writing. It has to be put in an


intellectual form for it to make sense


because it's a literature. It's a


grammar. It should communicate meaning.


So you will see Moses dying in Moses


book. How could Moses die and wrote his


death? Somebody had to have added that


part. So you see that they were editors.


But that you edited my book should not


mean you put your name in front. That's


the reason. So very honest uh honest way


of the


what we call theories of inspiration.


So male and female created he them. Look


at the verse 28. And God blessed them.


Is he not blessed he them male and


female? He blessed the male and the


female. And God said unto them, the male


and the female. So the same mandate was


given to the male and the female.


The same mandate of God is given to the


male and the female. The same mandate of


God.


The same mandate of God is given to the


male and the female. So chapter two


where he says and the ri which the Lord


God had taken from the man made he a


woman and brought her onto the man. That


word rib


and that word bone of my bone, flesh of


my flesh. This is Bible study. Oh, which


is why it is not sweet to somebody who


has made up their mind that ignorance


will be the way they live.


Bible study can never be sweet because


pastor can you not just do it like this


sharp sharp so that we can go and the go


is go with the confused idea that word


bone of my bone flesh of my flesh has a


biblical meaning and it is not used for


the wife is used for somebody that is


like you see the example of that word


bone of my bone flesh of my flesh


Genesis 29 verse14 14 And Laban said


unto him, Surely thou art my bone and my


flesh. Is it that Laban is gay? Is Laban


sleeping with Jacob?


Answer now you are quiet. Loud no.


Laban is not sleeping with Jacob.


>> Okay. And Laban said unto him, Surely


thou art my bone and my flesh. He's


telling Jacob, you are my you are my you


are my sister son and you are my bone


and my flesh. That's where we get DNA.


You are my bone. So if we take from you


will see that the similarity. You are my


person.


You are family to me. You are my bone


and my flesh. Okay. And I'm going to


read all the reverences for bone and


flesh which is again how you say that's


what the Bible is saying. After we have


now read all the text you can now say


it's your own opinion. That is how to be


crafty. There's no other opinion. We


have read all the opinion. You say is


your own opinion. No that's conclusion


of Bible study. bone of bone, flesh of


flesh, essled um what is it? Judges


chapter


Judges chapter 9 verse one and two. And


Abimc the son of Jeroba went to


Sheckchim, unto his mother's brethren,


and commune with them, and with all his


family, and of the house of his mother's


father, saying, "Speak, I pray you, in


the ears of all the men of Sheim,


whether it is better for you, either


that all the sons of Jeroba, which are


70 persons, reign over you, or that one


reign over you." Remember also, I am


your bone and your flesh.


Did you see it? I am your bone and your


flesh. Okay. 2 Samuel 5


verse one. Then came all the tribes of


Israel to David to Hebron and spake


saying, "Behold, we are thy bone and thy


flesh." The whole tribe,


"We are thy bone and thy flesh. We are


your wives." They tell David that they


are David's wife.


Thank you.


2 Samuel 19:12


and 13. You are my bed. You are my bed.


You are my bones and flesh. Where of


then are you the last to bring me back?


That's Jud. Judah of all the tribes. He


say Judah, why are you the last to come


and welcome me back as king


not tri


when you are my person,


we can trace our ancestry to the same.


That's what Adam was saying. Bone of my


bone. In other words, you are not


inferior to me. You are just like me.


That's what you're saying. You are


person like me. Not h you are bone up by


bone. You are you are secondary. No.


No


image of God. As an image of God, you


are also an image of God. We are the


same under God. That's simple what he


was saying. Let's read more references


so that you don't take my word. and say


ye to Amaz 2 Samuel 19:13


thou not of my bone and of my flesh God


do so to me and more so if thou be not


captain of the host so he uses that word


bone of my phone first Chronicles 11:1


the same story then all Israel gel to


David unto he saying behold we are thy


bone and thy flesh we are your people.


Did you get it? So those are all the


references for that bone. So Genesis


2:23 when Adam said this is now bone of


my bone and flesh of my flesh she shall


be called woman because she was taken


out of man. So female man and male man.


So we are both man


the same stock man man just that one has


uh


the physiology and anatomy


differentiates one is a female man one


is a male man so one will be the womb


where other men other human beings will


come into the world


the deep sleep there I've told you is


that word to have a vision. It was using


is not to be snoring.


Genesis 15, Abraham was in a deep sleep


in a vision. It was used


to explain in Isaiah 29:10. For the Lord


has poured out upon you the spirit of


deep sleep and has closed your eyes the


prophets and your rulers, the seers had


he covered. So Bible words have Bible


meaning. The word tadema is to be in the


is the entomology is the sleep between


words. So which is used to also explain


which is why it's called deep sleep. The


sleep between words. So when you are


well we can't say that is it conscious


or unconscious. So it's used also when


you are in deep sleep which is why you


can have dream and your dream you are


actively doing something but you are


lying down at the same time. So is that


what deep sleep? It's not that Imm


was a Adam as God's prophet saw that the


male


is not inferior to her. The female is


not inferior to her. They are the same


in God's purpose.


So look at ministry and see how ministry


is taught male and female. See how Paul


that same Paul teach male and female. So


this is how we get our world view, our


perspect our perspective about matter


from the Bible.


Galatians 3:28,


there is neither Jew nor Greek. There is


neither bond nor free. There's neither


male nor female. For you are all one in


Christ Jesus. How can we now be one in


Christ when we're not one in the


original creation?


If you are one in Christ, then we were


one in the beginning because God has re


rear e redeem, restored because man


deviated from the original plan. Amen.


So a societal defect


and that is what people are reflecting.


So you won't blame all these different


women group women rights fighting for


something and trying to use Bible to


support it which Satan will lash on


something and push you because he


destroyed the until he destroy somebody


will get peace. Satan not ever get


peace. So until he has finally destroyed


the person. So something as noble as you


should not be marginalized. You should


you are valuable you are important you


are not inferior in society is now being


used beyond the proportion to don't let


them this is sad we have left the issue


now we are fighting people don't let


them don't let anybody don't let them


this is anger this is a different matter


now


because once you see somebody


trying to know we not We go al that is


not the idea


which is why all of those group now tilt


into other extremes the other extremes


now start attacking every other place


they say why don't they allow woman to


be president do they allow or they used


to vote which one is this one is now


partiality now is the same place you are


crying for justice you are now being say


allow yeah they used to allow say allow


them to be governor contest and do what


the male is doing say No say allow them.


No, no, no. That is not the partiality.


You that's not the right again you are


fighting for.


You say no no no you cannot let us be


allowed. Let them know no. Bible has it


own interpretation.


Are we good? Male and female created the


ministry gift does not consist in a


marital function. Neither do ministry


gift consists in a gender function. Male


and female is who God is using.


So when he asked us a question about


marriage in Matthew 19, he said, "Have


you not read that he which made them at


the beginning made them male and


female?" Male and female God made them


at the beginning, not an afterthought.


It's male and female he made them. So


you must have a biblical perspective


about gender, about the role of woman in


society or the male in society. The


woman can be anything the male can be.


The male can be anything, the woman can


be.


However, when we now where we see


difference is always in our living


because there's even a difference


between a male and a male in knowledge.


The same way there's a difference


between a female and a female. Ab is in


our living. There we have to deal with


institutions or organization which


marriage is an institution is a


functional thing. For a functional


thing, anything that does not have a


head is a monster. There has to be a


head. So who will be the authority of


this institution called marriage that


has the male and the female coming


together for the mutual comfort that the


one ought to have of the other.


Let it be the man. Why? Because of just


simple biology seed principle. It is in


the seed that you will get more. So the


then


relationship reason because it is the


man that is marrying the woman except


the except the man that woman went to go


and marry which is weird but it's the


man supposed to marry the woman and


whether she change her name or not


change her name by default she


accept because she has relationship


speaking now so uh in all corners it


will fit God that's the system. That's


how orderly God is.


That's how orderly God is. So for


anything functional, it has to be the


male. So biologically, it should be the


male because the male is the foundation


because he has the seedbearing


capability as the man.


And just like they teach you sexual and


our sexual reproduction, the seed is why


we can have more trees. So the man is


first in priority


not that the male is greater than all


female. So if this is the seed is the


priority because if I have the seed I


can have more harvest.


So that then relationally speaking, it


is the woman's right to choose. Is the


man that comes to say I want to marry


you. So the woman has the right to


choose who she wants to submit to


because she's not blind.


That's why she can say I'm not doing.


Oh, I am doing.


Are you following?


Thirdly, theological impute. It is to


teach the union of God and mankind.


Marriage which you know how they say


marriage speaks of the mystical union of


Christ and the church is not just for


mouth. So Christ and the church which is


the union of God and mankind because God


made man for a union but there is the


authority. The authority is God. So


theologically that position is now given


to man. You can't be revolting that


spirit that revolts against God's word


did not come from God. It is the


worldliness so that has come. So


theologically also


also in order.


Are you following?


Now societal consequences.


You now see where there is no husband


where there's no male authority in the


family because the smallest unit of the


society based on Aristo Socrates how


they all the Greek philosophers


explained ethics and morality which is


the function of society. So the smallest


unit of a of a society is the family.


Now once there's already breakdown that


there is no man figure look at the


research how many percentage of mad


people we have in society today that


came out from that dysfunction because


dysfunction we produce after his kind


since there was no male authority no


principle no authority no foundation


just the woman because she wants to the


single mother or god forbid something


bad happened.


You see what it has produced.


So there is all of that stat which they


give you 70%


of this of the men the people today you


see on the streets who look like they


are going nowhere


they they are the to the agbero the mon


the everything you want to call them


come from that kind of family that had


no father no father figure so you cannot


remove that so god is a god of all that


please you cannot be doing sentiment


because it they paying you and it will


not have been paining you if you live


some couple of years back because you


won't even have the voice to say it's


paining you. So be grateful for the


times.


Are you following? So that is what


people now bring into marriage and we


say it there are no male and female


fruit of the spirit. So much of the


reactions that you see in the marital


space comes from so we said where is


that husband and wife or what you say


male and female difference? The male and


female difference is not now a biblical


male and female difference that people


are having their home is coming from


uh parental upbringing.


How the parents if the father was always


saying hey shut up there your brother is


talking and yes the brother is the


younger one know there are some families


that raise children like that to be mad.


This is the man he's trading his


children say you know say this your


younger brother is the head of this


home. Uhhuh. When he said when he's


talking all of you when when he talk all


of you shut up. These are the sister


because one to B man to B man they go B


10 the


why are you doing me like this now want


to B want to B man want to B man the


woman man is subjected because she's a


slave to the system just be throwing out


children she has brought the 10th one is


finally a man the man say we can stop


now


then that one is the head of the home as


that child grows up they say hey all of


you women they may senior that child


with 10 years 15 years does not matter


listen to


See where the madness have started. So


you now blame that on Bible. So parental


upbringing.


Then you now go to society. The madness


did not stop there. Society has a defect


and a slant against women which is now


trying to be repaired


in this current century. Okay?


Are you following it? Then my own


choices and my wisdom how I choose to


also live my life as an adult that is


responsible I say okay nobody can tell


me this nobody can tell me this if it is


the wrong one I used to form the


philosophy of my life it will also be


seen that's what we are having say a


woman is naturally this don't be saying


woman is naturally this which is why I


don't know where people get all their


research say women are emotional men are


logical Don't be buying into stupid


theories. So every human being is


emotional and logical because every


human being has emotion. Every human


being has will.


That's why the Bible never separates


character for male and female. It's the


same character we have.


It's the same Holy Spirit that we have.


Don't be you know we are women that we


are women came from upbringing came from


a a a foolish father and mother system


that parent you or came from the choice


in way you decided you are going to live


your life or you are influenced now we


have to society is Tik Tok Instagram


Facebook which is even the worst now


this is why it is possible to see a


young person who has not read any book


but they have phone. How thank God that


we were not born in this timeline


cannot read book and so normal


not thinking nowadays even AI you can


ask AI so people will not think again


said AI think for meh


what is happening deep so the ratio of


high impact people the gap is getting


wider because there's now more failures


because the gap then at least everybody


force everybody along But the logology


is being used wrongly. People are


becoming lazy. They don't read. They


don't ask questions. Not getting wiser.


But some years back everybody is forced


to read book. If you don't read book,


you feel like you're doing something


wrong. So that is the development. So


first Corinthians 14, see another text


where he uses that word.


Learning something.


>> Yes sir. 1 Timothy chapter 2. Now


Timothy was the pastor of the church in


Corinth. Timothy is not a church.


Timothy is a person. Paul wrote to


Timothy. So I hope you understand. So


when you say ah this same thing is found


in Timothy. Timote pastor the church in


Corinth too.


That's book of acts. That's why book of


acts is there. You see a bit of history.


All right. And some of the episodes you


see who is let him come and meet me. Let


this one come and meet me. So it says


from verse 11, let the women learn in


silence.


The word learn again matter, let the


women come to know something in silence.


The word silence here is now a different


word from that one he uses for


spirituals which is that word. He uses a


different word that is used


in 2 Thessalonians 3:12


for both the male and the female by


saying don't be a busy body. Now


them that as such we command 2ian 3:2.


Now that as such we command and exalt by


our Lord Jesus Christ that with


quietness


they walk and eat their own bread with


quietness. This is not written to


female. This is second Thessalonian. So


this quietness


that word quietness he uses there.


Are you here?


Now them that are such we command.


We give order,


we urge.


So it says that with quietness they walk


and eat their own bread.


So what does it mean to walk with


quietness?


See that same word quiet.


1 Thessalonians 4:1.


And ye and that ye study to be quiet,


and to do your own business, and to walk


with your own hands, as we commanded


you, that ye may walk honestly towards


them that are without, that ye may have


lack of nothing.


2 Thessalonians 3:12


First Timothy 2:2 For kings and for all


that are in authority that they may lead


a quiet and peaceable life in all


godliness and honesty. See the word


quiet. 1 Peter 3:4,


"Let it be the hidden man of the heart


in that which is not corruptible, even


the meek and quiet spirit, which is in


the sight of God of great price." Did


you see it?


Of a meek and quiet spirit.


So this word quiet here is an adjective.


The Greek word hesios


h e s u c h i o s used in that first pet


verse 4. Now in 2ia 3:12


the noun of the word is the wordia is


what he uses in that 2ia 3:12.


Now where the word is also used as


silence is in acts 22:2 that same word


used for the women keeping silence in


acts 22:12


uh acts 22:1 and 2 men brethren and


fathers hear ye my defense which I make


now unto you


and when they heard that he spake in


Hebrew tongue to them they kept the more


silent


they kept the more silence and he said I


am very


I'm coming one minute something I want


to


now the context of this is Paul in


Jerusalem he's defending himself because


he has been brought to Jerusalem and


he's going to defend himself what he so


that conversation starts from chapter 21


which we will not read because you will


look like you see that that's why Bible


studies work that it's not somebody's


dodging you see that you keep going back


because you don't want to lie you don't


want to add


you want to say what the Bible is saying


that's is a painstaking effort to know


the truth it's not something that is a


motive that how I feel this is what the


Bible is saying no sir we can't do that


to Bible study because the words are not


as English as we suppose because there


was no English language when Paul was an


apo Paul was alive nobody was speaking


English language Paul never heard


English in his all his lifetime Paul


never heard anybody speak English so he


couldn't have taught in English so the


reason why we will say the Greek word


the Hebrew word is so that we know what


the word means not because we are trying


to elevate a language and if you hate


any language then you are a racist or a


tribalistic person or xenophobic anyone


that fit you. Amen. You shouldn't. Which


is again another world view that a


Christian should never have. We should


never be against ethnicity where we know


that we want all ethnicity in Christ. So


I must be very inclusive in my world


view of race because what is white and


black?


Philosophical construct to keep people


in bondage.


Which one is white and black? What is is


your heart black? What is black? Don't


you have you not seen black before? Look


at black now. Is that how my face is?


Even Ghana not black like that saga


black like that? What is black? What is


Have you not seen white? Which white


person is white?


Is white, black, yellow. What is all of


that


philosophical construct for slavery?


Don't buy into that. Now the heart is


not black. The kidney say it's a black


man's heart want to put in you say put


it put so they don't say it's a black


man's heart it's a heart is heart


transplant doctors don't do that


nonsense in the hospital it's a black


man heart black man heart black man


liver black man eh


you know they look for body part shall


be black man that so is when you want to


do important things now say he is a


black man who is a black man who is a


white


How is white the good one? Why is black


the bad one? Those are


uh colism


concept to keep people in bondage so


that people don't rise and become free.


So they use Africa as a test lab for all


manner of atrocity. It's not conspiracy


theory. It's proper thinking.


Amen.


>> All right. So let's leave that. So it


looks like


when you think properly it will look


like you're a conspiracy. Yes. Yeah.


Right. So Acts 22. So and when they


heard him speak to them in Hebrew they


became even more quiet and he continued


I am. So they were able to hear him out.


That's the context of it. When they


found out oh he's a Hebrew man like us.


So they were able to hear him out.


That's the word quiet the way he uses it


there.


So, let's go back to our wife text.


Did you get it?


1 Timothy chapter


chapter 2.


Let your women learn in silence with all


subjection. That's already so the


silence they already explained that he


was going to obviously say in all


subjection because silent there means


they can allow the man talk.


Nothing


you wear today. Say no. Don't be like


that as a woman. Be able to hear your


can you say what you don't like. Yes.


God told Abraham listen to your wife. So


it's not weakness to listen because what


if she's bringing wise suggestion? She


should be able to hear her out. It is it


is it is sanity wisdom to hear the woman


because it's two persons. This other


person may have a point that is very


valid. Not I'm the man of this house.


That's not what makes you the man of


this house. You are just being


dysfunctional.


Man of this house does not mean you you


are not a normal human being to know


that interaction dialogue is necessary.


Is let's not talk. I have spoken. I have


spoken. Here comes the emperor. No. Now


interact. So it's the meaning people


give to submission and love that becomes


negative. Not what the Bible explains


those words to be.


Let the woman learn in silence. Let her


come to know something is the word learn


because you say oh I did not get it


that's you know in marriage context say


I did not get what you were saying oh I


did not understand that's why I use the


word learn cuz that's what brings


argument and I say okay I get it now


that's learn she now knows so say let


her let the wife the woman there is the


wife g is not the is the word wife used


in Matthew 1:20 20


Mary fear not to take unto thee Mary thy


wife that's the word woman there Mary


thy wife the first time that word gou is


used in the Greek text it was used for a


wife and it is used 221 times of which


90% 95% of the time is used for wife


than it is used for woman


so the word has used so let the wife


come to know in quietness with all


subjection which is the word used for


submission.


She's under obedience.


But I suffer that word suffer. I do not


allow a woman to teach. The word teach


here is to instruct.


And this instruct is not Bible study.


This problem is we took this into


preaching to instruct say hey sit down


there let me talk to you yes my queen


yes your servant humbles humble himself


in doors and ashes ready to learn from


his master wife I sit


so that context so suggest recommend but


don't in the way you speak like bend


your head and hear me now no you can't


do that if you are being submissive not


because you cannot pass your point, not


because it is weakness, it's because


this is somebody you honor. And when


people are in love, they normally do


not. They talk gently. Hello babe, my


love, my sugar, my honey, there's no hey


you those tones are not there.


But I suffer not a woman to instruct.


See the no. See the no. So you see what


he means by teach


is Bible leave screen use your own so


that you can see that we're not making


it up not waiting for the people on the


screen I s not a woman to teach nor


neither nor neither nor you you went to


school so if you put teach nor you so


what is that teaching that means that


teaching is to you authority that's what


he said I do not allow should he allow


that before what kind of pastor will he


be if he's allowing a woman us authority


over our husband.


It says but to be in silence and silence


in verse 12 is now that word silence


with all subjection. Simple


interpretation. Nothing there saying


women should not do ministry. Nothing


there saying women cannot is just and is


women there is wife because within the


marital context.


Amen.


Hallelujah.


So don't run off with what I did not say


because once again which is another


elemental spirit thing which we need to


deal with.


Once you mention let a wife submit to


her husband she start hearing voices.


They want to turn us to dat


the spirit of the age. There's an anger.


Hey be careful. Don't let Bible put you


in bondage. But that's not what


submission means.


Are you not submitted to the Lord? Can't


you talk? Don't you bring your case


before Lord? Don't you reason? No, you


can't tell me that. Oh, wow. That word


submit is not good. Do you know the word


love is also why are men not cry when


they say husband love your wife? Because


that love if you see the meaning the men


are supposed to say we not going we not


going because that love there is lay


down your life


she die for herself


because that love involves sacrificial


that love is to put her first never as a


traditional man as a as a man from


I can never as a man from Ugoi as a man


fromu


as a woman from


I can never let a man as a woman from


Ubia


never


as a as a lady not a woman as a lady


from Kogi we don't bow we reign we rule


we shine yeah


so when it involves Bible we can speak


to you so biblical perspective of life


as we round off hope you learned


something this morning


>> so so normally I will not do all this


lengthy Bible study but I did it so that


you know say where pastor just drop it.


So many of those views is how we use


sound doctrine which is why this


biblical perspective of life is not just


a topic is how every service every other


topic you have ever heard has always


been to give you a biblical perspective


of life.


So we can never finish this series if we


want to say because it will take us


several years we are still teaching it


because we have to touch every area


which is what different other topics can


do. So sound doctrine of every area. So


you know that oh


why we my


my my wife don't don't like people


coming to our house


as the head of this home they must come


you want side chick we suspect you


woman should have is our home will not


show you that you are not reading Bible


because the woman has the home


the the regulating of the household is


within the woman's authority


evil Bible talker will now show that


you're not a Bible well let her have


power for God's sake to the Samuel who


come to the house why does somebody want


to be close to you and your wife not


bewitch he be why you know you are


dealing with a married person you don't


know they say no you can say I must show


that I'm the head of this home in fact


of course doesn't mean she will be crazy


not to allow you be able to bring


somebody but that's not what you should


be using authority say you hide


something for back allow her have that


power that simple of those things which


why we teach on marriage so that you


don't nobody can tell me nobody can tell


me that nobody calm down


you are a Christian you live by the


principles of God's word say so who


should cook and who should not cook ah


you want Bible to answer that one Bible


can answer it too


Your not evil nature show who is to


breastfeed.


Oh, he's not being funny. I'm being


serious. So the challenge you have here


is that you are a creature of the modern


violence against male and female. So


that's why a normal looking lady will be


angry when we say let the woman cook.


Say what is the meaning of that


nonsense? Why should a woman cook what


can a man not cook? Of course when it


comes to love does not assign roles


because we love the man can cook. The


man can take care of his wife because


there are stages where the woman will


not be able to cook and the man should


be understand where is my food you woman


whether you are 9 month pregnant or


going to delivery room make that now. Do


you see the monster you went to go and


marry? Because your role is your role.


Where is my Where's my I will not hear


anything.


Even as she's about to push, she said,


"Babe, I'm hungry. Get up from the


operating table.


Pound yam for me. I am a Benin man. It


is founded yam and a goosey soup that I


want to use to welcome this child." Aha.


You see what you have you have done.


No, we love we love you. You will not


turn rose to slavery or bond. You will


not. However, why should the woman be


rebelling against cooking food?


If you want to use Bible, every time we


saw Sarah prepare something, all the


women they prepare something. Why you


don't want to prepare something? If you


want to use Bible, of course. But we


love you are flexible. But that thing


you are looking for say I will marry a


man who can cook and will be cooking for


me. That's the same thing you are trying


to


0.5%


of humanity is where you find that kind


of man. They only exist in zero not 1%


is 0.5%.


All these are the ways you are letting


us know you will not marry.


How many of those women that tell people


don't cook for your husband for they


have caught them with camera pounding


yam


all those witches on social media


advising people there's one now that


they have told this your old old video


now that you are in love with somebody


you have changed look at your old video


say leave that thing how many lives have


been destroyed


where nobody can see her say this is my


own husband


found the I am found.


Then she come on social media. I say


then the husband say okay now this


hustle is your hustle. I be why we used


to make cuz it's hustle now. She to make


money. She on her camera I say now don't


g for any man don't. And when she finish


say baby you understand that work we


walk. I say yes.


How many of them have been exposed like


this? Now you they learn from.


Let us see how many years they they have


been married without their philosophy.


Hypocrites. Many of them are


either hypocrites or cowards.


Amen.


>> That's not how we are taught in Christ.


So even a all important matter like


marriage, relationship, the Bible gives


us perspective about it. So it's not


what I think, what I feel. No. Don't


lose your femininity. Don't lose your


masculinity because of society default.


Be a man, be a woman.


Amen.


>> I say


there's no male and female fruit of the


spirit.


Stop


loving weirdness. Say, you know, we are


normally troublesome as women. We are


normally fighters are men. So get ready


for blowing your eye. How does that fit?


You know I say no no it's not fair it's


fair since we want to be doing you know


as a man we can act like a beast how


does that sound in the equation of you


know as a woman we can be very petty and


naggy and very troublesome and we are


ready you should understand that's why


we are understand each other now and it


has turned to WWE


then now forever


your home is wrestling the giant


us


China.


Oh God help us. Amen.


>> So


God's word


is very very important to us. That's how


we shape and frame our perspective of


life. So a biblical perspective of life


is a sound doctrine perspective of life.


My philosophy, my ideology, my world


view is shaped by sound doctrine.


That's how I live. I am not governed by


social media or all the different forms


of social media. I'm not governed by the


societal defect. I'm governed by God's


word. Man shall not live by bread alone,


but by every word. I am a doer of God's


word. I continue in the perfect law of


liberty. Amen.


>> That is my perspective of life.


Hallelujah. And that is the same


perspective of life I have concerning


power, concerning miracles. I say you


expecting a miracle. I also expect a


miracle. I expect healing because those


are provisions within God's word. I


expect God to intervene in this matter.


I can tell God anything. Say ah you are


disturbing God by telling God about what


you are going through. I tell him


everything.


Cast your care upon for he cared for us.


So I can tell him everything. He shapes


every area of our life. Even to our


identity which we'll look at next week.


Who we are. Where are we going? I am a


Christian. You can also say I am a


Nigerian. Oh, I am a student of the


great university of I am.


I am. There's many I am we use for many


things. But I am that identity issues is


where we are the modern day man is


asking the question of identity. Say,


"Oh, I identify as a pig. Identify as a


cat. Oh, I think I'm trapped in a


woman's body." These are now modern


issues that comes from the failure to


recognize that imodo image of God. I am


the image of God. So what is the


biblical perspective of my identity and


my functioning society


and God's word gives us that


perspective. Stand on your feet this


morning and


you pray a simple prayer. I live by the


wisdom of God's word. I will not be


taken captive by human philosophies. I


will not govern my life by elemental


spirits that are against


the power of God or against the word of


God or against the reign and rule of


God's spirit. No, I live by the wisdom


of God's word. Go ahead and just pray in


the Holy Ghost.