 And let's get together. There, Father, name of your Son Jesus, in this service I receive clarity of thought and understanding. I develop a masterful skill at reading your word and following your plan. In this service, my heart is receptive to the truth of your word. And together at the church, we'll behold Jesus Christ, your Son, even as he sees us in him. It's glorified in this service, as we are edified to get out with the body of Christ, amen. Matthew's Gospel 28, we're looking at the walk and the walk in the spirit. The walk and the walk in the spirit. Matthew's Gospel 28, verse 18. Jesus came and spake unto them saying, all authority, which is the word power, is given unto me in heaven and in earth. I go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things that were served by commanding you, and lo, I'm with you always, even unto the end of the age. And so we said that the word to make disciples, ma-fit-chew-o, it's made. This is an important thing for pastors, and all of us who, every believer that is growing, is a potential pastor anyway. So now to make there means if you're doing, to make disciples, you make disciples, ma-fit-chew-o, you make disciples. And I made that distinction for us at the World Children's Conference. There's making disciples, there's recruiting people. Make disciples means that you begin to impart into them the message and your lifestyle. Now in Apostles and Onions 2, and Paul relates this when he says, in verse eight, he says, we have not only imparted onto you the gospel, but our very lives, because you are there to us, our very lives. So we said that in the work of discipleship, you learn certain things, you develop skills, because discipleship is actually like an art, develop skills, you learn skills. I remember there was this musician that, okay, let me mention one. You usually, when you listen to someone well enough, you begin to imbibe certain things, they become skills. And I listened to someone and I said, I was listening and I said, there's someone's voice that I'm listening to here. And I said, this voice is someone that's around me. So for days, I was wondering, who sings like this? You know, who sings like this? So I just called faith up and I said, do you by chance know this singer? He said, oh, I used to listen to my lots. I said, aha, because by listening well, you now sing like the person, you know? And that's how it is. By listening well, you sing like that. There are others who are coat of any colors, but then I'll keep hitting you, all right? Because you're a critic. You know, you imbibe. So we said exegesis is one of such skills. Exegesis is the skill, inability to ask good and interpreted questions when you are reading the scriptures. Good and interpreted in questions when you are reading the scriptures. And what was it doing the week again? We said, in this discipleship, you also learn how to read. We looked at the word early in the week. Now, anything I'm teaching you now, they're all interwoven. As I've always taught you over the years. So I'll add the liberty to refer to somewhere I said yes, even if you were not there. Or last week, all right? We looked at the word Anagino school, which we said Matthew 12, 3, and 5, Matthew 19, verse four, Matthew 22, we went to many texts like that, Matthew 22, 33, yeah, we looked at, you know, where Jesus says, have you not read? Ephesians 3, 4, when you read, you may understand. Colossians 4, 16, he asks the church in Colossia to read it. And then he says they should read the one I wrote to Laodicea. Forces Aeronians 5, 27. And we said, now of course, when the church also wrote, in Jerusalem wrote to the church at the Asia, they also were to read it. So I showed you that Anagino's code also includes teaching. You remember that? Remember that? Come on, you remember that? Teaching, that is, you're a good teacher when you're a good listener. So when you listen to God's word, it's not just to learn the information, you also learn the explanation. It's a skill. So explanation is a skill, see, understanding? Explanation are skills. So you know how to explain when you listen well, good. So that is a skill from the Saphashian. So I told you, it's not just about raising your hand. So, eh, eh, eh, but what about that verse? Is as the word of God is taught, your mind is conditioned to interpret what you read. To interpret it, right? So that is a skill you get. And we say, how do you develop that skill? Obviously by consistent listening, okay? Paul said to Timothy, continue the things you've heard, 2 Timothy 3, 14, knowing of whom you have learned. So there's someone you are learning with. 2 Timothy 2, 2, the things you have heard of me, I'm not necessarily the same community of faithful men which I'll be able to teach you. You're not so sure to teach others as well. On Sunday, in our sense, we're a past friend who just came to see me today. I said on Sunday, I'm going to be teaching the whole church how to take notes. Now, why am I doing that? Because I'm not just doing it. Before this church was founded, all your pastors were members of the ministry. I taught them how to take notes. I'll check your notes. Those are fundamentals. You see, if you miss it from that point, you miss it in your study and what to do with what you listen to. I was like, girl, can I learn how to, I can take notes, no. The same way you have to learn how to pray, how to preach, you also learn how to sing, how to worship, you also learn how to read and how to take notes. So I'm going to do that on Sunday, after the third service, how to take notes. So that when you're listening like this, you know how to take notes. Some of us are too reliant, and let me mention this, on the fact that after the service, you can get the teaching. Let me see this and put this down. The attitude you have in the service will be carried over to when you listen alone. It's the same attitude you're gonna have. So develop an attitude all the time when you listen to God's word to take notes. All the time to take notes. And I mentioned this, I'm gonna teach it on Sunday. You should have, in a church like this, where you know that we don't just speak. You know we don't just speak, we're left as well as God. You know that we teach in subjects, in different subjects. This is serious, for example, work and of the spirit has predecessors. We have a little bit of a spread over the years in what witness their different titles. So you should have notes specific for those subjects. One day, and that day is not far, you will have course to teach subjects. So you should have trained yourself that way. So that's exegesis. It is skill you develop. If you, you're just like a student, even if course you didn't pay attention to, and then you were just passing score in C, C, D, C, D, C, D, C, D, C, so E, D, C, D, C, D, C, A, B, when you're let, when a miracle happens. C, D, C, D, C, D, A, and you're just of course, you just say, you know, by the time you get to practice, it will come out. Because you are supposed to be an all-rounder. Well, the Hagan will say, a pastor must not be a specialist. So don't like C. I know you do this already. As a member of the group, you mustn't have this space. You mustn't have a favorite subject. The moment you start having that, your spiritual good is out of the window. No favorite subjects. In fact, I always say like this, your best subject is the one you don't like. Your best valuable subject is that one you don't like. That is where your spiritual growth is. The one you don't like. So that is where your spiritual growth is. So we learned that in this worship. Max, Gospel 16. Go into all the world, we're speaking and preaching gospel to every creature. He that believes in his baptism shall be saved. He that believes no shall be damned. And this thanks shall follow them that believe in my name, which I cast as demons, cast as the word devils. And they shall speak with new tongues. If they take out serb usurped, we and judgmental hurt them. These are lay hands on the sick, and the sick shall recover. So the after the Lord has spoken unto them, he was brought to heaven and sat on the right hand of God. And they went forth and preached everywhere, Lord walking with them, is the last time I said in the commandment of the world, with signs following. And notice verse 19 says he sat in heaven. In heaven. And I've taken years to explain to you, heaven is nowhere that people go. Heaven is God's dwelling in the earth. And so Jesus sat in or as God's dwelling. And that's multifaceted. He dwells in men, he dwells amongst us, he dwells in the gospel. So that sat at the right hand of God involves people, individuals, collective, work of God in the earth. So the gospel is about Jesus in heaven. I mentioned that during the week. Jesus is authority in heaven, Matthew 28 verse 19, 18. All authority in heaven and earth is given. Luke's gospel 24. Luke's gospel 24. And verse 25, then he said to them, whole fools and slow of how to believe all the prophets are spoken, but not Christ or suffer these things. Yesterday we look at the word enter. Remember that? Enter into his glory. We looked at the book of Hebrews is entering into. We saw that the entering there is similar, right? Entering into his glory. The glory is an Old Testament phrase of Exodus, which we're going to also explore. Begin at Moses and all the prophets, expanse them in all the scriptures. The things concerning himself. Da-am-ne-yo. So put that there, come back there. Da-am-ne-yo, which means to show the meaning of something. A skill you get in discipleship is how to interpret. I mentioned that earlier. 44. And he said unto them, these are the words which I speak unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses. And then the prophets and in the Psalms, come said in me, then you will be able to understand them and understand the scriptures. The word understanding, so near me. So that thing you skill to read the scriptures together. So pay attention to two things. We're going to come shortly. 27. Interpret. Da-am-ne-yo. 45. So near me. To reason together or read together. So John 20. And 21. Then said Jesus to them again, peace unto you, as my father has sent me, even so send I you. When he said, he breathed unto them, and said to them, receive ye the holy ghost, whatever sin shall be made there, it shall be done, so that sin shall be turned to everything. So by giving the spirit, and pay attention to it, because it's coming later, when you read the Old Testament, you will be studying the motif of sacred space, sacred land, holy land. You see it described in agricultural terms as a precept property, okay? Because possession in the Hebrew culture, land was a very expensive possession. So land therefore becomes a figurative as it were, motif in explaining God's ultimate gift, which is the spirit. It also relates with where we are anyway, and you have the land. So he gives the spirit for what purpose? He says, so that whatever sins you forgive are forgiven. The word affemme, a-p-h-i-e-m-i, affe-me, from the word affesis, a-p-h-e-s-i-s, okay, they're related anyway. Not affe-me is where we go to affesis, okay? It means to forgive sins, it's God who forgives sins, but in giving you his spirit, he begins to partner with you to carry out his own task in the earth. So by giving us his spirit, it's God who forgives sins. Psalm 103, and verse three, bless the Lord, O my soul, and for getting all his benefits, who heals all your diseases and forgives you all your sins or iniquity. Micah 7, 18, who is likened to our God, the pardons transgressions. I is there for the 325, I, O, I, and I, and the one who blots out your transgressions, is God who does it. It's Exodus 34, verse six, it's God who does it. So he gives that to us, all right? Because we now have power, look five, just like Jesus, we have power upon the earth to forgive sins. Look five, and verse 24, we have power on the earth to forgive sins. Doesn't mean you are forgiven, you have the right, but he gives you the power by giving you his spirit to forgive sins. So the great commission is not just, listen carefully now, also just go and preach in just by words, it also, where our lifestyle has to reflect. So because we are giving a great commission of reconciliation, so in chapter five, 18 and 20, a message, a ministry, and then we have a conduct of reconciliation. Colossians 432, you forgive as God has forgiven you in Christ, Colossians 313. So which means that beyond just for giving those who hurt us, we also know that the message that we preach is an authority we have to pronounce men are forgiven by God. So go back to look 24 and 27, where you have the word there in menial. So we said in some of the series, not this one, that how, okay this is one, how did the early church read the Bible? None of the first thing is, what did they read? Okay, now we have said that I'm gonna go back to what I taught yesterday in the series Law and Galaxies. So now what did they read? Now they read the letters, their pieces when the pastors or the founders or the writers were not available. Romans was in red by Paul, was read by someone else. First or second Corinthians was in red by Paul, read by someone else. Galatians was in red by Paul, was read by someone else. Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, Apostles and Ones and Seconds wasn't read by Paul, was read by someone else, which means that Paul wrote it, they read it, good. So when Paul was present, or Peter or James and John, what did they read? Okay, so they read the scriptures for Genesis to Malachi. So what did they read? They read the scriptures. So we said, what then are their pieces? Where pieces we said are codified language of the scriptures. What's a codified language? A phrase, a phrase, a paragraph, an expression, okay? In a book, when it's reading another book, all right, where it abbreviates, shortens the contents of the primary book. So we call the epistles the short form, the Old Testament in a shortened version. It's a smaller version of the Old Testament. Now of course, that comes with a couple of other words. We said like identification of unifiers, which means that the words are unified, then there's a motif and all of that. So the epistles are codified language. So whatever teaching Paul is coming out, he sticks with the theme of the Old Testament, the motif. Okay, he interprets it into his words. Okay, so therefore, watch this. Paul takes a book that was not written to Corinth. He codifies it, interprets it, unifies the world of the Corinthians with the ancient Neaheimian culture, all right, and the, as it were, Mediterranean culture, and maybe the earlier Greco-Roman culture, then a Jewish language. Then he brings out a letter that is consistent with the Old Testament books, even if the audience differs. Now you have to cross a lot of barriers, grammar, language, et cetera. So the way to properly interpret the epistles is that they can't be read alone, one, two. They can't be read outside the Old Testament. Are we there? Okay, so they must be interpreted. Now let's widen this scope. We also said that the attempt or let's say the work of interpretation did not start with Jesus. It did start with Paul. For example, Nehemiah 8. Nehemiah is in Babylon, exile, better still. Nehemiah is believed, or Ezra is believed to have written second chronicles and first chronicles. So what does Ezra do? Nehemiah 8. Now, it says it's fake. Now let me say that all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street. That's what you call church. Nehemiah 8.1. It says that one man just like the church. He says before the water gate, and it's fake to Ezra described to bring the book of the law of Moses. So Ezra is writing from the law of Moses. Which the law that come into Israel. That's Genesis through to Ezra. Let me be technical. The law of Moses. This is for Saturday, but then the law of Moses is technically Ezra on me. I said technically put it in your note too. Praise you. Yes, Pastor, thank you. Let me discard the first four. Now look at verse seven. And Joshua and Banna and Sherabiah, Jammain, Akub, Shabbatiah, Odaja, Messiah, Keliya, Ezra, Zubad, Nanan, Peler, and the Levites caused the people to understand the law. And the people stood in their place. So they read in the book, the law of God distinctly and gave sense. The word sense there is interpretation. And cause them to understand the reading. So you see from this point, they are interpreting the law of Moses. They are interpreting it. So interpretation did not start with what happened in the road to Emmaus. So later writers of the Old Testament books, as we now call them, equally interpreted earlier books. Let's see a few. Look at Daniel with Jeremiah. The book of Daniel therefore cannot be read without an understanding of the book of Jeremiah because within the book itself, Daniel nine one. In the first year of Darius, a son of Hasari, also the seed of Midis, Daniel nine one. It says which was made king over the realm of Chaldeans. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel understood by the books the number of years where the word of the Lord came to Jeremiah the prophet. That should accomplish 70 years in the desolation. Said I understood what came to Jeremiah the prophet. Now this is interesting because you see it in Jeremiah 25. So Daniel studied Jeremiah, Jeremiah 25. And verse 11 and 12. 70 years, you see it there. Then you see second chronicles 36, verse 21, quite a number, Ezra. If I this particular, when you read Jeremiah, Jeremiah read Ezra because Jeremiah refers to Ezra. 25 verse 11. Now Ezra 11, we have the same character. So Jeremiah, Daniel is interpreting Jeremiah. Now, not just that. Jeremiah, I know the other day we looked at Exodus, Phonus, remember? Did you remember that? Was it this thing? Was it Saturday? The fairy Phonus. When? Saturday. So Daniel read Jeremiah. Jeremiah read Ezra. Ezra read Love Moses. So you have Jeremiah 31, verse 31. I'll make a new comment with the House of Israel with House of Judah, no current covenant that may with their fathers in day. I took them by the hand to lead them, to bring them out of the land of Egypt, which my covenant they break, although I was a husband unto them. So you notice that this is a whole story. So the codified language is already being used here. Where you find a few sentences that narrate many chapters. Sorry, that shortens, abbreviates many chapters. And they are not just stories. Within it there is a theology. So Jeremiah read Moses. There you have Isaiah. Isaiah is gonna take us long though. Isaiah read Genesis. God Isaiah 14, verse nine, O Zion as David, the city of David, circle Psalm 5-7, O Jerusalem again as David, then O Judah, Genesis 49, verse nine and 10. So you have kingdom here. So where he mentions the seventh. Isaiah 42, verse one, my Sabbath. Isaiah 52, verse seven, the Bessar, the size kingdom. Don't have story over and over again. King and kingdom. Where we said the word Bessar takes its roots from 4 Samuel, 417, 4 Samuel 31, verse nine, 4 Samuel 417, 4 Samuel 31, verse nine, 2 Samuel 4, verse 10, 2 Samuel 18, verse 19, verse 20, verse 26, and 31. 2 Samuel 4, verse 10, 2 Samuel 18, verse 19, verse 20, 2nd, verse 36, and 31. First Kings chapter one, verse 42, 1 Corinthians 10, verse nine, 1 Corinthians 16, 23. I'll take that again. 1 Kings 1, 42, 1 Corinthians 10, 9, and 1 Corinthians 16, 23. So those are kingdom language, kingdom stories. Then some 40, verse nine, some 68, verse 11, some 92, verse six, some 40, verse nine, some 68, verse 11, some 92, verse two, but 96, verse two. So the use of the word gospel, right, requires you to read some, 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, 1 Corinthians, 1 Kings, 2 Kings, of course, all the stories afterwards. They are seen therefore as a gospel motif. Whatever the word gospel represents, we found in the stories. So the use of the word gospel, Bessar here, is an interpretation. Then let's see a very interesting one. Look at Malachi. Now I want to reference this because Mark, Mark one, verse two. Now Mark one, one says, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it's written in the prophets, Mark one, two, behold I send my messenger before thy face, and he says, which shall prepare thy way before thee? The worst of one kind in the wilderness, we pray thee the word of the Lord. Now Mark refers to two texts. Malachi, an interesting one, Malachi three, and verse one, behold I send my messenger before thy face, who prepare the way before me, and the Lord. Then Isaiah 40, Malachi definitely as read Isaiah, Isaiah 40, verse three, the voice of him, the Christ in the wilderness, we pray thee the Lord, make street in the desert, the highway for our God. Now Malachi is reading Isaiah, and also reading Exodus, Exodus 23, verse 20, behold I send an angel, that's the same Greek Hebrew word, Malach, M-A-L-A-K, before thee, to keep thee in the way, to bring you to the place which I have prepared. Now what is this messenger doing in Malachi three one? It says, prepare the way before thee, the Lord whom you seek shall certainly come to his temple, it is even the messenger of the covenant, whom you delight in, behold he shall come, share the Lord of hosts. So you have a later writers interpreting what was said before. Now let's just mention this quickly. Go back to Isaiah 52, in the use of the word gospel. So the word gospel is the story of a kingdom. All right, so another thing, or news of a kingdom. So after David and the Psalms, which was ended by Psalm 96, verse two, we now have Isaiah 40, verse nine, the one read now, Isaiah 41, verse 27, Isaiah 52, verse seven, twice. Isaiah 60, verse six, Isaiah 61, verse one, Jeremiah 2015, Nahum 15, I'll take it again. Isaiah 40, verse nine, Isaiah 41, verse 27. Isaiah 52, verse seven, twice. Isaiah 60, verse six, Isaiah 61, verse one, Jeremiah 2015, and Nahum 115. Of course, they take their understanding from Genesis 49, verse 10. The selfless shall not depart from Judah, so the law, giver, from between his feet. Then it says, unto him, unto Silicom, unto him shall the God be of the people be. Now, baptized kingdom, go back to Genesis 17, what God said to Abraham about his seed, and it says in Genesis 17, and verse six, I'll make the exegguli fruitful, I'll make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of you. In Exodus 19, Exodus 19, verse four, you shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people, for all the earth is mine. You shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, a kingdom of priests, what Melek, Melek is where you have Malak the king, kingdom of priests. So kingdom of priests, don't forget, we have Jerusalem, we have the king of Salem, the king of peace, Meelchisedek, Genesis 14. So this is interrelationship. You can't understand one without reading the other. Oftentimes, a letter writing is understood by going backwards to read the story. So which means, pay attention, that the latter books of the Old Testament are understood by the earlier ones. The synoptic and gone is understood by the same sequence. And then of course, the book of Acts, and then the epistles. You cannot ignore the stories. There is no story in scripture that doesn't form a part of the narration of the doctrine of the epistles. 1 Corinthians 10.6, Paul says there are examples unto us that we should not lose other things that we lost it after. 1 Corinthians 10.11, it says things that happen at one time happen for our examples, upon an admonition upon whom the hands of the world will come. Romans 15 verse three, it says things that were written at four times are for our learning, that we through the patience of consul scriptures, we might have hope. So the stories are part of the explanation. Do not ignore the stories. So when you read things like temple, stop a guy, you need to go to where they've been taught, or let's say explained. Now, like I thought yesterday, I'll probably report with now, where we talk about rest. Unfortunately, we have, oh, sorry, you have your rest, as it was a rest. And I think the Greek is more of the word cataposses. But they are first of all in the Old Testament. So what is rest? So we said, now Isaiah 66 uses the word rest in place. Uses the word rest in place. Verse one, where is the place of my rest? Menukak, M-E-N-U-C-H-A-H, menukak. Isaiah 28. So notice that when you mention rest in place, we can picture temple. The earth is my throne, the earth is my, the earth was my throne, the earth is my first tool. Where is the house you build me? Where is the place of my rest? In Isaiah 28, and verse 10, precept upon precept, line upon line. Oh, precept line upon line, literally a little there. That's a building going on. For Samri lives, another town will speak to his people, to whom he said this is the rest, because with rest, this is the refreshing that they will not hear. So we went again to the word line upon line, precept upon precept. Now go to verse 16, behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation, a stone, a tried stone, a precious cornerstone, the shore foundation, he that believes shall not make haste. So he's talking about temple, rest, temple. Now, Sam 95. So we said, Isaiah goes a lot to David, remember? Now, you know David had a lot about the house of God. Right? Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me and I will dwell in the house of God forever. Right? Sam 23, that's David. Okay? A little of my eyes under the heels, Sam 121. From where's come my help? My help coming from the Lord. Okay? That's David. Second, Samus 7 goes, said to David, he said, I'll raise up the seat after you. I'll set up a kingdom. I'll build my house. Okay? So David's house is Isaiah's rest place. Okay? So where did David get the inspiration from? Sam 95. Sam 95. So notice the word foos too. Isaiah 66, don't forget. Sam 95. Verse one, O come, thou sing unto God. Okay, let me go to verse six. O come, let us worship and bow down. Let us kneel before the Lord our maker. That's temple language. For he is our God and we the people of his pasture, verse seven. And the sheep of his hand today, if you hear his voice. Now, right of Hebrews leverages on this in Hebrews 3, 7 and 8. Then it says, adding not your heart, adding not your heart, ask in the provocation. So it's reading numbers, right? Ah, come on. That they are tempted in the wilderness. When your father tempted me, proved me, and saw my work. 40 years long was grieved. Well, I grieved with the generation. It's the people that didn't hear their heart. They have not known my ways. Now look at 11. Now, what does he ask us to do in six? He has asked us to come and kneel before the Lord our maker to worship. What else has he asked us to do? He has said, we are the sheep of his hand. So now look at the interpretation. I swear in my word, they should not enter into my menuka. M-E-N-U-C-H-A-H. So he relates the menuka to what happened in the wilderness. Now, if it is not done, Psalm 132, Psalm 132, verse seven. This is about David, though. Lord, remember David, one, I know his affliction, verse one. Verse seven, we will go into his tabanacal. I will worship at his foothold. All right? Are you saying similar things? Ah? Verse eight, arise, O Lord, into thy rest. Menuka, thou and the ark of thy strength. Ark, Noah, ark, the exodus. Let thy prince be called to righteousness, since she shall for joy. Then he says in Leven, the Lord has sworn the truth to David, he will not turn away of the fruit of thy body, will I set up thy throne, kingdom? Then he says in verse 13, for the Lord has chosen Zion, he has ready for an invitation. This is my rest forever, where I will dwell, for I have decided. So rest is rest first about man or about God. Is God's rest place? Which we have seen, we've been looking at, is typical of the Garden of Eden. Now, the Rite of Hebrews now says, this are Hebrews four. Hebrews four, and we wanna argue with him. Rite of Hebrews says in verse three, which we have believed to enter into rest. As he said, as I sworn in my wrath, he will enter into my rest, though the works were finished for the foundation of the world. And then we pause and he says, for he spoke in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, God did rest the seventh day from all his works. Ah, I was able to link Genesis one, Genesis two, one to three, with this, what is the relationship? Now, the quick one, remember, we already said that Genesis one, two, is a story of what? Ah, is there an Exodus story? Exodus accounts, very good. So if it's an Exodus account, and what did he say they did not enter into the Exodus? My rest. Of course, just by the way, Numbers 14, 21 is called the glory of God. So here, if this is an Exodus story, and we have the opening is chaos, Genesis one, two, to who, what, who, right? Come on, chaos. So what's the solution to chaos? Rest place. Genesis two, one to three, the seventh. So we said the opposite of rest is not, so the opposite of rest is chaos. All right, so rest is not inactivity. It means order, worship, light, menuka. So if you have that in mind, you know what I'm talking about, walking in the spirit, so they are all interredecessors, this is very well. So we have chaos, then chaos is brought to rest, right, in the earth, Genesis two, one to three, and Moses is gonna interpret this for us. Exodus 20, what we call the Ten Commandments. Book of verse eight is the longest phrase in this instruction. We can say the first one, verse two, the second one, verse three, the third one, verse four, the fourth one, verse five, then the sixth one, verse seven. Then the seventh one, see the seventh now, no? Not the seventh one, one, two, sorry for that, one, two, three, okay, the fourth actually, it says in verse eight, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now I mentioned this, that none of the patriarchs had anything about any day. The use of seven had nothing to do with them. This has to be a language, a lone word from Egypt. So Egypt is where seven is symbolic, of course for idols, gods, rest and all that. So he says here, remember the Sabbath to keep it holy. Six days thou shall labor and do all thy work. Seven days the Sabbath of the Lord thy God. Indeed, in each dhoush shall not do any work, thou not a son or daughter, main servants, or main servants, castles, strangers, and then that gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven on earth, the sea and all that is therein, and rested the seventh day, where of the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and allowed it. So it takes us back to Genesis two, one, two, three. Now look at what he says, remember the Sabbath day. Now when I say remember today, I'm trying to let you recall something. And I'm saying remember, remember, oh, it's true, it's true. I know, you know. But the word remember here is zaka, it means to be mindful. All right, Z-A-K-E-R, to be mindful. Why is he asking you to be mindful? Now, please pay attention please, this is what it will be called, you must get this. So far, what is the rest of God, what activity explains the rest of God the most? For what we read in Isaiah 66, Isaiah 28, Psalm 95, Psalm 132, what activity explains the rest of God the most? Who has noticed it? Okay, rest is temple. Temple is for who? So what there is the core of the temple? So what is the opposite of chaos? What is it? Right? So what brings order into creation is what? So worship of Yahweh, are we clear? Does it make sense? Okay, so, now pay attention to this. From verse two, I rescued the angel of God, I took him out of Egypt, and then he tells them, thou shalt have no other gods, don't make any grieve in Him, don't bow, don't take my name in vain. Then he says remember, can we say remember the rest place? Remember, eh? So he says remember the Sabbath of the King T'Buhli, then he now tells them where is the place of this Sabbath? The old, can you see it? Can you see it? The earth, heaven and earth, the old earth. So the word remember, zakah, is what you are mindful of, that you talk about, for example, Genesis, 8 verse one, God remembered Noah. Is he like, oh, ah, he has never, in the second he says, your highness, Noah, who's that? Noah now, Noah, Noah, oh, no. Zakah means to be mindful and to talk about, it's involved to mention, to talk about. So in 8 verse four, what is man that you are mindful of him, not the son of man that you visit him, that you talk about? So when he says remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Now pay attention everybody, so we'll pick one day, right? Let's assume we're at Moses' theme, one day to keep one holy. One day to observe God's ultimate plan for wear. Yes, okay? So the remember there will mean that we are mindful that God is using us for his resting place, I didn't say resting place, rest in the earth. So pay attention here, he uses zakah to be mindful in our words and in our actions. So zakah is what you say and what you do. So when he says that, he now says, honor that father and mother, that their days may be long upon the land with the Lord thy God give at thee. The days upon the land is not talking about living to 120 years. If you take our book, Honor in the Last Days, we explain this text well, that it's the days of heaven and earth will be long to prolong those days in the earth, which means honor extends God's rest. Honor is rest in chaos, doubts shall not kill, doubts shall not commit adultery, you will steal, you will bear false witness, you will not covet. Now the epistle writers, and I showed you that last week, I'll take it up next week again, wrote it as love, not walking ill for your neighbor. So you have knowledge, pops up, love edifies, right? So that edifies, is it temple language? A little here, a little there, line up on line, come on, is that God's rest place? So in God's rest place, what is the atmosphere? Love. So which means love is an action of worship. When I love instead of hate, when I do not commit adultery, when I do not lie, when I do not steal, I am worshiping God. It's worship. It's worship. So in a moment, I am mindful of what God wants to do in the earth. Let me rebut and say this. Now, I was having this conversation on, and I said that what has messed our minds up, and now I'm free to say this often times in this church, because it used to be very, very difficult to see this. That the concept, and we have to correct all of these things, the concept of heaven is where the dead go to. And you have all sorts of movies have messed your mind up. You know? Like when I would say, you have been really messed up. You're thinking is, you have enough dreams to explain it. Then a lot of people say somebody was found in a fire, and then they were wearing a ring and stupid stuff. There was a book I read before I got saved, delivered from the power of darkness. By proper immunotics, it's delivered from the power of God. That's how to interpret that book. It's one of the worst things a Christian should have read. More so a non-believer. That book is ridiculous. That book is terrible. That book is horrible. You know, I almost blew it one time in 96 or 7 when the writer came somewhere now at Buhui Balo, and I looked at him and said, is he frowning? You don't understand what I said, doctor. Say you are still frowning. So I thought, when I said, this man said he was second come on the devil. Do you think he has stopped? He's still frowning. And you know, very funny things. And we had things like Satan is having a room where he's watching Christians, and then he now said he entered, and as he mentioned Jesus, they all fell down. Jesus, that they were saying on the cross, I'm mocking him. You know, all those things are just superstition. You know what I said there? They now went to the fact that it relaxes all those things and made under the water. The first time I preached in the church, I didn't know I was preaching. I didn't know, for those of my early days, so I went to God's place. I thank God I escaped. So I was just preaching and I just mentioned this, and I said, there is nothing under water. I don't want to mention this, I said, it's fish that is under water. I know they were frowning. This was sometime in 1995. They were frowning. They were like, hey, God, love, love, love, love. So how do you go to school? So I said, they are manufacturing Lamborghini under water. Are you believe this? You went to school and you were looking at them, they are frowning. And that's what was in the book. So all those beautiful cars. So the ugly ones. They say, is in the book, anytime you see any woman who has long hair. I'm just looking at her. And leave my mind as a bra. I like long hair. Female, not male. I like trousers from a child. But I would never say it. I would just say, ah, I said go read. So whenever I pray for consecration, I say, Lord, remove from my mind love photos. I love love photos. I love the photos. He's not my love. Say, any yellow. If you are too yellow, you are too black. There are little things though. I was trying to escape that one. There was now a Rebecca Brown. That one, by that one came out. I was ready. I was ready to preach. So the book was really horrible. And it's all tied to the fact that when you die, you go to heaven. And every father said that the Lord said to him, this is your last chance. That's a threat to the last one. You're very ridiculous. And there are other books like that that have been written. So that concept has really messed people up. This one is not my, I am just passing. So when we say world, people assume we are talking about the air. Right? And none of the people who want to get to heaven are in a hurry about it. Nobody is in a hurry. He said, oh, no, no, no, no. He said, oh, it's not my, I am just passing through. Everybody knows. And one big shell. Fast-flying sky and then there will be wind. Blue is catching the clouds. Ah, it changes the sun. This world is beautiful. Hallelujah. This earth is God's Sabbath. Is that clear? So look at what I'm about to say. This is where I was going. I was trying to, you see, hear me. If you are doing well, I'm just giving rise. Oh God. Oh God. So that's the last day. On the last day, I know they are bad, bad things, but they are good, good things. On the last day, they are on the scale. Of course, on the scale that is the bad side, you have Chelsea supporters. Look, what did you suffer? Chelsea. Ah, I was the work of the flesh. So, you see, what is the theme of your work? You see, what's Chelsea? You can't call my name. You can't, you can't. You can't, you can't say. You can't say. You can't say. You can't say. You can't say. You can't say. You can't say. You can't say. No. What is he really? Say, red devils. Say, no devil can enter the kingdom. First Corinthians 10-20. Paul says, I write this to you, so you will not come near a devil. So you are lost? You know, but why he say, did you wear the old arm of God? So, yeah. He turns into the rest. I'm ready for it this year. You know, so that's the idea. So we only think that our conduct is God's rest in the midst of chaos in his resting place. Are you there? So if you're critical, what I just said now, it's a worship. It's the, my good is worship to God. You know, I told you the difference between someone, if you go and listen to this, I taught it before, but I now made it very loud, teaching the culture of the true spirit, so Lambodic Christ. That was in 2014 or 15 or so. I said to us that the difference is somebody who is very moral and is good. He's not wrong to be moral. And nobody's wrong. He's right. And the fellow who lives right as a believer is that the focus of the believer is Jesus and his plan for the earth. Those things that we are doing right is what is God's picture of the earth. It's what he wants. He's not needed in one world. He's needed in this world. Are you there? That is why it is called the fruit of light in the midst of darkness. So it says, love is what edifies. It's building the earth in its fullness. So put this down. We'll get to this later. So it means therefore that what we call the Ten Commandments, I told you there are ten words, right? Ten words of a singular expression. That is the life of the guardian of Eden, God's temple. That's why if you look very well at the Tabala Church, at the Tabala Co, when they are dubbed Tabala Co, they put the two stones are critical. So if the Tabala Co is the mini-Even on Earth, the Ten Commandments is a life of Heaven on Earth. That's what it is. So when you come and you see, now look at that what I said to be mindful. Don't forget, Zaka is a word and deed, right? Look at Romans 8. You learned something? Romans 8 verse 5, they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh. There's a happens we do mind the things of the flesh, but to be kindly minded is death. So spiritual mind is life and peace because the kind of mind is enmity against God, is not so much the law of God neither can it be. Now the word mind there is the Greek word for Neo. Romans 8. Food, let me just stop there, I'll come back to it. So what put it somewhere? So when you see death and life, remember? Death and life, right? In the Garden of Eden, sorry, in Garden of Eden, death and life, Genesis 2, 16 and 17. You see Moses presently said to me, chapter 30, sorry, from verse 14 to 19. And a Paul says, the law of the spirit of life in Christ has made us free from the law of sin and death. So death is outside the life. Life is that Garden, the dwelling of God. So what happens in the Garden? It says in Genesis 3.8 that God was walking. We look at that last week, right? So that last week was walking. The very God, 26th to up walking. The very God, 23th to 13th to 14th walking. I want to say something now that you don't do that. So that's why we look at the second Corinthians 16. That walking gives you a suggestion that God, apart from living among men, is doing it personally. The work of God, because the work to work is a human expression. It's an embodiment. God embodied walking. So which means that God has been giving a body, a Garden of Genesis 3.18, replicated in verse 12 to 14, He's embodied and is walking. So His walk, which is in Tabanacu, is now our walk. We are walking in His walk. So if we are His image, image of the Corpus Thetors, Genesis 1, 6, 28, where His image were here. It is likeness, Salem and the Moose, here. Therefore means that heaven and earth is how God wants where we are to be. So go to Romans 8, 1 Aurelian. So the concept of heaven, right, as the end is misunderstood. Romans 8, where he says, kindly minded, spiritually minded, but notice where he started from. For the law of the spirit of life, there's no condemnation. For the law of the spirit of life has made us free. Free there, is that an excellent term? Free from the law of sin and death. What the law could not do, the wish to be fleshed, God sent His own son like a simple flesh and foreseen, condensing in the flesh that the righteousness of the law might be in us who walk. Now look at the way it's walk. So, not able to flesh without the spirit. So it goes on and on. Let's think quickly, verse 14, for as many as are led by the spirit of God, they are the sons of God, the word, agor. Now if you take that term back to Genesis, Genesis 1, 2, the spirit of God moved Rakaaf, R-A-C-H-A-P-H, upon the face of the waters. I've done it this before, so I'm just going to invite you again. Where they're last week, right? Where we checked Genesis and the Exodus story. Was it this series? Was it this series? So look at Psalm 32. It found Him in a land, just that land, in a waste, howling wilderness. Genesis 1, 2, waste. To who? Come on. He learned Him about, instructed Him. He kept Him as an apple of His eye, as an eagle flutters, starts up our nest, flutters over our young, spreads our brother wings, takes them, bears them on our wings. This is what Paul meant by, as many as are led by the spirit. So the leading, which is the word Rakaaf, a God, now crosses us to walk. The leading is God taking us from bondage, from Egypt, from the world. It calls us into a walk, His own walk. So you can say, the Alak, the walk, Alak, H-A-L-A-K, in God's Rakaaf. So spirit in, Genesis 1, 2, is a temple language. So when Paul says in Romans 8, so they kindly minded the word phonema, P-H-R-O-N-E-M-A, it refers to aspirations, pursuits. So which means that the moment we are born again, this is the leading of the spirit, our aspirations change. We are now minded by the spirit. We now take on the aspiration of the spirit. Romans 8, 6, Romans 8, 7, Romans 8, 27. It says what the mind eyes canal is, O-style, O-style, E-C-H-T-R-A, O-style. Similar to what happened to Israel, hardened hearts, O-style. In Ephesians 2, 15, I will abolish in his flesh the enmity. 16, I will slain the enmity thereby. Of course, James 4, 4, friendship with the world is enmity, friendship with the world is enmity with God. Now, let me now show you something that we saw last week. So no doubt, Paul's Romans 8 has a background, just like Galatians 5, walking in the spirit. The walk is from the leading. We are led to walk. We are led to walk. We are carried by God, just like Romans 32, to walk. So we now are in the wilderness. The wilderness has ways, right? To who? What is our walk? Reversed, right? Light and darkness. We are not to run out. We are to bring reverse in the desert. Is that clear? Is that clear? So which means my conduct is for the earth? Who's following what I'm saying here? Is it making sense? It's for the earth. It's a remembered Saturday to keep it holy. We look at that word holy, maybe today or next week, where you have that word, be holy as I'm holy and all of that, and that has to do with the earth. That's why the light of Ebus says no one will see the Lord. Because seeing the Lord in the earth means that it is His worship place. Is that clear? So our holiness, which is in our conduct now, is because we are building a house. The earth is the Lord's, the fullness thereof. Look at our Romans 8. That Romans 8, Paul, learned something? How you learned something? Alright, good. So take it away that good works. Good works is not a score point. You already led. You are chair free. That's not the issue. Good works means that I'm in partnership with God. Right? That's why Ephesians 5.1 says, be imitators of God as their children. They now ask us to walk in love. It says as Christ loved us, and He calls what Christ has done a sweet smelling symbol. Is that worship? So that means my giving, my sacrifice, my lifestyle is a sacrifice in God's temple. That what it is. Romans 12, 1, 2, we can go and check much of that. So look at Romans 8. So Paul now says that why is this going on? In verse 15, we are led like Israel, as sons or heirs toward Benin, in the Hebrew. Verse 15, you have not received the sweet of bondage again to fear. What does that remind you of? Is that Egypt? The sweet of adoption is that Egypt? Heba, Crihabah, Father. The sweet bear witness with our spirit that we are children of God. Now look at verse 17. If children, what does he call us? Heirs. Heirs of God, joint heirs. Notice that he built this foundation from Romans 4. A Romans 4, don't lose this. Verse 14. Romans 4, verse 13, sorry. For the promise that it will be the heir of the world. Was not to Abraham or to receive through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made of made void and the promise made of no effect. So where, now listen to this now please. God gave us a spirit and we now become heirs. Heirs of where? Heirs of the world. Are you there? Heirs of the world. Now the word heir is the word called what? It means to be given a portion. So he says Abraham was given the whole world. Right? The whole world. So we are heirs. So we are given the spirit because of the world. Because of the earth is functional. So power relates walking in the spirit, led by the spirit to our inheritance. Right? Come on. And it takes its narrative from who? From who with personality? Abraham. Look at Galatians. So you see the similarity. In Galatians, look at five. That's 18. If you are led of the spirit, you are not under the law. That's 16. Walking the spirit, you will not be able to walk the spirit. You will not be able to walk the spirit. So that's 16. Walking the spirit, you will not fulfill the loss of the flesh. That's 21. They which do such things, shall not inherit that heir. The kingdom of God. So go back to Galatians 3. For the scriptures, for seeing that God was just about eating through faith, preached before the gospel to Abraham, saying, these shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. So they which are blessed of faith, are blessed with faithful Abraham. Now notice verse 13. Christ has redeemed us from the course of the law. Right? Been made the course of the law, which is because everyone is hungry. I'm jumping the text because of time, but I want you to see the connection. Straight forward. So it says that the blessing of Abraham, might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ. Now go back to 8. It says, it will justify the eating through faith. Preach before the gospel. So go back to 14 again. The blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the spirit through faith. So where, what is the blessing of Abraham? The promised spirit. Or the promise of the spirit. Through God's faithfulness. Now he goes on and on because of time. Look at verse 29. If you are Christ, what are you called? Abraham's word. See? And according to the promise. So he now talks about the air and all of that. Now in chapter 4, it says, tell me that is that, if you are under the law, do you not hear the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons. One by born woman, the other by free woman. So it goes on, talks about the born woman. Now look at 28. Now we present as Isaac was, the children of promise. Okay? But as then, he that was born after the flesh, persecutes the one born after the spirit. Even so now. Nevertheless, what's here in the scripture? Cast out the born woman and her son. For the son of the born woman cannot be air, with the son of the free woman. Air, notice the word air is consistent. So then, Red rain, we are children of the born woman, but of the free. Then verse 1, stand fast in liberty, where we cry. And this leads us to chapter 5, to walk in the spirit. Is it making sense? So, the walk in the spirit, is it the same as the walk of Abraham? Huh? Yes. Now let's pay attention to something here. What did he give Abraham? The land. Right? He gave Abraham the land. What's the land? The land? Is it the old earth? Huh? Just the old earth? No. The old earth and the blessing. The blessing is the spirit. Genesis 1,2. The spirit of God, opening over the nations, causing an exodus. Abraham is God inaugurated that plan through Abraham. Okay? So that is why, when you hear it was given in land, the New Testament writers, right? Narrows it down to the promise of the spirit. And the promise of the spirit is the walk of the spirit in the earth. So, the promise spirit, the land, in the earth, the promise spirit, and the walk of the spirit is the land Abraham was given in the earth. So what is the walk? The walk is rest in a mist of chaos. Light in darkness. Rest in a mist of chaos. Light in darkness. So it is not to leave the earth. The promise of the new covenant is to remain here. It is to remain here. The promise is the walk of the spirit, a new earth. That is what it is. That is heavenly. That is what the gospel is about. Look at Mark 9. So we said, or say yesterday also Sunday, that while the preaching of many theologies is get upon the game, go and meet God. Right? What Jesus said, the prophets, is that God has come. That is the gospel. The Vagelion. In fact, the Vagelion is the arrival of a king. So I told you on Monday, and yesterday as well, that the resurrection sets a motif. Jesus rose from there. I want to say that it went to heaven. We know it means he came back. So that shows you the motif. This is God's dwelling place. So that theology of you, there was some clouds somewhere and all that is absolutely wrong. And just like the term hell. Okay? Let me give you the idea of hell. Hell is supposed to be that place that at the end of life, now everybody sees one place, everybody lines up and says, where are you qualified? You stop there, there, there, there. So people go there. So because of that theology, people have the idea of, when people are there, born in and shouting, yeah, yeah. They have different movies, you know, that depict that. I remember one time like that. We did this outreach. And there are two outings I've done like that. This one, we started to play music. And then the music is supposed to be worldly music. And then as a Christian, you can't even touch worldly music by longspawn. So when I said, you know, when I did an outreach, everybody came to see me. And we did it very well. We used light. We now played popular songs. Songs by Milly Vanilly. You know Milly Vanilly. Girl, you know, it's true. We played by two lives, by two realities. Been around the world and I can find my baby. I don't know where. You know, that's time for, you know. Now you should do DJ, so I know you can do this. So we have songs like, Don't forget my number, number. Love is stronger than thunder, thunder, thunder. And we have a thunder one. I'm talking about the outreach, you know. I supplied the music because I knew my old man was supposed to have the background. So we had the bell bib the ball. Bell bib the ball. It's not a poison. Poison. And then we had, what's this guy's name? He said, It's a tragedy for me to know I really love you. I can never never forget the day we met. Again I'm gonna meet, I know this song so. I don't want to, God. I don't want to, I'm gonna, Hey, Bobby Brown. And he said, Bobby Brown, that's a, No, I don't think the, I might not come out then. When did this one? I might say, Can't talk to you. Dundun. Ma ma ma ma, music makes me. Love is something. So you cannot even imagine what I'm saying, right? No one that reads me. So now we have got those songs. And we did what's called back smacking. Back smacking is, you play from behind. It says, so when those songs are played from behind, you not be hearing things like, I'll see you in hell. I say we need another one for Michael Jackson's, and three la, three la, three la, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine, nine. And then you don't matter if you're back or white. So when I hear those songs, they were shaking, shaking, huh. So I said, we said to them that, So any time we hear these songs, you are being initiated, 666, there's other songs like that, that ended like, I'll give you 666. Now one thing we never said, I didn't disclose this until years after, was that, when we were doing back smacking, so we were doing back smacking, so all those songs were flowing. We are going to say hell, death, ooh. We now played dumb when. I want another song, and we also heard hell. And 666, we just said, let's forget this one. Deceit. So, but what I just observed was that, all the wood that came out of the water core, that day, the day I tell you how to ship. So when that did not work, we now had another one, the world's going to come to a name. So we can't tell you about that, the country, I remember it was a tossy. So we now had, we had a lot of people, we had a lot of people, we had the tossy. So we now had everybody coming, the whole place was filled up, the sanctuary. They took like, ha, I appreciate, will you be ready, will you be ready? You know, and because people at that point were excited in fear, but that was it. So I know the hangu, I know that Angu. All those things bring some to give testimony. I was saying something like that. They bring people out. They say there is a former court boy, a guy who did testimony. And you see, and he preached the gospel. Okay? Everybody means the gospel. Court boy, decent guy. Do you understand? Everybody. You get it. So these ones are not the gospel. So now, look at Mark 9. Just to see the idea, pick it up from next week. Mark 9. Remember when I was thinking about this text and they said, I'm laughing on my own. I'll tell you why in a moment. I just laughed him. So now, of course, the story here is this. In verse 38, Master, we saw one casting out devils in our name, and he follows not us, and we forbid him because he follows not us. He says, Forbid him not for there is no man which shall do a miracle in my name that can speak likely evil of me. And like to speak evil of me, he that is not against us is on our part. Then watch this. We shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because you belong to Christ, really, I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward. And we shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me. It's better for him that a milestone was hanged upon his neck and he was cast into the sea. Notice the world the sea. Okay? Now, this is an exhalous narrative. If thy hand offended, cut it off, it's better for thee to enter into life, which is what is the kingdom of God, mean that have two hands to go to hell. And he says, into fire that can never be... There's one guy like that. He said he was being tempted by women. It was Kaduna, I can't forget. He testimony the truth of that. Now, he now caught his private part, because he didn't want to be tempted. That's foolish, because this was a text. This is proof text. Diagnostic is really ridiculous. So what is this saying here? Now, there are two things we need to pay attention to. We talked about life, then we talked about hell. Okay? Now, when we say hell, the first thing that comes to our mind is what will happen when people die and all that. But you don't need to use hell like that here. Now, the word hell, because of our time, I'll just do a quick study here. I know we've done this before. First of all, notice when he says, if your hand offended, you cut it off. As we've said many times, they are reading the Old Testament. So this is an imagery that you will get in the Old Testament. Let me just give you one. Proverbs 6. Before you go and cut your leg, when you like football too much. Proverbs 6 verse 16. It's where you have use of body parts like that. Just like use of tongue. 616, 6 things that the Lord hates. 7 have promised unto him a proud look. Eyes, the lying tongue, hands that shed innocent blood. Had that device, we get imagines. Feed that fruit in running to the sheep. You know these are not literal, right? Are you there? These are actions. So he's talking about actions. To cut it off. To enter into life. Now when he's talking about eternal life, it is the life of the age to come. God's heaven on earth. He says you cut it off. Whether to enter into life, meant, meant there, means without these conduct. See that later on. Than to hell. Now when they say hell, usually if you sat down in the meeting and they say hell, you wouldn't think he's talking about where you die. No. Because hell is from the word gehena. G-E, that's the Greek. G-E-H-E-E-N-A. Which actually is from the Hebrew. It's called the valley of Genom. Valley of Genom or Gibben. Let me just give you the breakdown of the Hebrew. G-E-B-E-N. B-E-N is son. Valley of the son of Inom. G-E-B-N-H-I-N-N-O-M. Now you separate it. You separate the G-E, the B-E-N, the H-I-N, the N-O-M. Separate them. Four. They are four, almost like four words. Valley of the son of Inom. That's what it means. Valley of the son of Inom. So his audience knew what it was referring to. Look at 2 Kings 23. Verse 10. In the power of Tofeneth, which is the valley of the children of Inom, that's what it is. That this is hell. Watch your renegade. Hell. That no man might make his son a god to pass through the fire to mulek. Okay? 2 Kings 3-10. Jeremiah 19 verse 6. I'm going to assume that you have been following other things that have been teaching. I'm going to just say something now. Jeremiah 19 and verse 6. The days come here to Lord that this place shall no more be called Tofeneth. No, the valley of the son of Inom, but the valley of slaughter. Okay? So Inom, or the valley of Inom is outside Jerusalem, which means it's outside of God's city. Outside of it. So that's why I use life as the opposite. Outside of life. So when he said that, because he knew that Gehenna was outside Jerusalem, where they would burn things. The new word he's saying is this will not be part of God's kingdom. That's what he meant. A proud look. A deceitful heart. He says it's not going to be part of God's kingdom. That is what he's saying. So you can take that and bring that to Galatians 5. It's not part of the kingdom of God. So he says now, go back to Mark 9. Let me something. Let me something. So it's not part of God's kingdom. Then verse 44, Mark 9. Where there are warm dikes north and the fire is not quenched, if your foot openly cut it off, it's better for you to enter into life than having two feet to be cast into hell. Okay? Into the fire that never be quenched. Where there are warm dikes north and the fire is not quenched, but I offend you, same narrative. I'll talk about the one of the salt later. Now this is Isaiah 66, no doubt. Notice the... We have this in many of our books. But that's time there's two. Some parts of this gospel, prominent also in these are gospel series. So they are just taking you through... Isaiah 66. Let me read from 22. I go forth and look upon the castes of the men that have transgressed against me. For their worms shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched, but shall have been abhorrent in flesh. You can see the distinction. This is whatever will not be found in God's temple. Is that clear? It's called gehina. So which means that even though hell eventually becomes an event at the commission of time, hell also describes sin and death and the flesh, the works of the flesh. That's what it actually describes. So the value of guinom is typically a place where things are destroyed and the flesh is destroyed there. Amen. So which means that the flesh is destroyed there, the power look is destroyed there. So the work in the spirit causes hell, all right, upon the works of the flesh. And that's important. So if it is not found in God's heaven and earth, which is through the church, His earth is found in the valley of guinom. That's where it is. Outside Jerusalem. Outside God's earth. So it's not somewhere, you know, in the earth where people... Just a description of destruction or separation from the life of God. Amen. You learn something? Amen. Stand to your feet and bless God.