 Let's raise one hand and sing this together. Dear Father, name of your Son Jesus, in this service we welcome revelation of your word. We believe and receive that our hearts are purified to receive accurately revelation knowledge found in your Son alone, together as a church to behold Jesus Christ your Son, even as he sees us in him. In this service you are glorified in your Son Jesus and the body of Christ is edified, amen. Matthew's Gospel 28. I want to talk about the fruit of the Spirit. I know I called you walking the Spirit but somehow just now I felt the fruit of the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit. Hallelujah. It's really about Christian character and conduct and what it involves. Christian character and conduct. We'll talk about character from God's Word. Now Matthew's Gospel 28 verse 18, Jesus came and spoke unto them, saying, all thought which is the word part given on the mean heaven and earth, going there for and teach our nations by passing him near the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Teach them to observe all the rules of Africa, manage them with you always, even unto the end of the world. We're going to come to that in the moment because of the use of the word commandment by Jesus, takes our minds to the text of what we refer to as the Old Testament. The word entolomai or entolay which has to do with instruction. Now again the word commandment refers also to doctrines. We see that as we proceed further. But in verse 19, I'm going to repeat what I taught the other day. It says that to teach them which is the word matitul and as it does training. And I said one of the things that you are trained to do is the training of exegesis. So it's the exegesis. Now exegesis we have said is a skill, right? A skill whereby you are able to ask good and intelligent interpretative questions, right? About what you are reading. And we said that's a whole lot of difference from asking questions. They are foolish questions really. And Paul says to Timothy to avoid foolish questions. They are foolish questions that people usually ask. And really if you get involved in that, Paul says that that's not exegesis. Let me maybe just go to where Paul gave that instruction. In Struct Timothy, Second Timothy, and it tells him to avoid it. Now I thought some of us can get involved in that all day and practically just waste our time. Second Timothy 2.23. But foolish and unlearned questions avoid knowing that they do gender strife. That questions if you answer them, it's also why you give everybody, but Peter says that you will have an answer to give every man concerning your faith. Yeah, that is concerning the faith, but they are foolish questions. And you ought to know that they are. And not just even doctrinal questions. There are questions people are going to ask you maybe about yourself, maybe about your friends, maybe about your church, maybe about your spouse. You don't answer every kind of question. Jesus didn't answer some questions. He just kept quiet. You don't answer every question you answer. So there are questions, for example, that are tempting questions. The Pharisees who come to Jesus ask a question, and the question is not to learn Matthew 19.3, and then he says tempting him. See, they came to tempt him. But there are questions where the Inquirer is deliberate about finding out. I will give you two instances. In Luke 2.47, we see Jesus, 46 and 47, he's in the temple, and he asks questions of the Docks of the Law at Perotau, which is, now, Perotau naturally means to lay, what you call, to lay a request. I want to know at Perotau. So, Perotau means I can lay a request. So he does that. And then his response that I told you that, when you actually write questions, you will give the right answers. You know, you have the right answers. So he gives the right answers. Now, you also have Acts 17 and 11, where Paul goes to Biria, and he says those in Biria were more noble than those at Thessalonica, in that they searched the Scriptures. That actually exegesis. They searched the Scriptures, all right, to see whether those things were so. They searched the Scriptures to see whether those things were so. But those are the kind of questions. So exegesis is to ask an intelligent, good question, an intelligent and good question, with the view to interpret what you are reading. And it comes by training, and I mentioned it a couple of times. It's not until you have questions and answer sessions. That is not really what it is. And that could happen too, but a pastor can have a format where he trains those under him to ask questions. For example, this is, if I teach you in class, in our ministry of classes, there are questions I expect you to ask, right, because these are intelligent questions that bring about understanding, but they are foolish questions, right, questions that are asked. And why you ask those questions is intelligence, because you are trained to ask those kind of questions. You are trained. So it's a skill. So it comes by, when you consistently, for example, this is the type of shit. When you listen to a pastor, your pastor, consistently, you begin to think alike. What have you been thinking like? You begin to have that kind of interpretative thinking if your pastor has that. I hope I do. I said, I hope I do. And you can ask the right questions and get the right answers. And so that's something about training. And that comes by teaching. Teaching them to observe what is there, I've commanded you, that's 20 Luang Witi hours. In Matthew 2, it's in Matthew 13, 52, where the scribes are instructed into the kingdom of God, in Matthew 27 and 57, where we see Joseph of Ariumatia equally being instructed. And so part of your deception, if you have people that you are raising in the Lord, you are also teaching them to be intelligent with scripture, to be very intelligent. I remember one day like that. And sometimes it could be a little bit interesting. We went for a meeting, and myself and someone in our ministry, that's about 24 years ago, 25. And the process of preaching, and now the year before, I had gone to a meeting, the preacher said something very interesting about Jesus, the Holy Spirit, and all that. And said the Holy Spirit is the one that John saw, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera, in the book of Revelation. So I did not foresee this. So you know where something is hot, as is common. As it is hot. He was healing my man, I can wow, I can wow, this is 19. 19. 19. And I just got to fellowship that evening, it was a needy service, and I said, it wasn't my series. My series, there was now with the Son of God. I found a way to, you know, when you have something that you just find the way to ask to come into this teaching. And so I said, that's the Holy Spirit. Because I never treated anybody, I said, woo! Good, I've done that. And so I said, everybody just kept quiet, just like I taught them. So I said, I'll service, I said, ah, Pastor, just have a question, what you taught today? And I said, yeah. He said, but the person there said, I'm here, that was there as a lie. Did the Holy Spirit die? Yeah. I'm looking at Mr. Oxable. You know Mr. Oxable? That's Cosmos, right? Huh? Oh? Okay, thank you. Sangu, I said, actually I just had that this morning. I was impressed. You know, the same person personally, we now went to Holy Spirit, and this pastor is preaching, and then he goes, he says something about, is the Father the Word? He said, he said the Son, he says the Word, and the Holy Spirit, he said the Son. Immediately, all the seeds, then he said, so is the Father of who? I said, you better be careful. If you raise your voice here, the Oshayas will dump you somewhere. You go out of this place, ask that question. I said, I'm just wondering, what's the truth? If it's the Father, the Father of who? The Father of whoever he says. Let's go home. That is, now that could be a little bit on the extreme, but the point is, you are trained to think, exactly, and ask in-tape-t-t-t questions. Okay? And that is something that comes with teaching. You want to pick the Scripture, and you're able to understand it, read things in context, you learn to read the verses, you learn to read through, stuff like that. So that is something that comes with teaching. And the only way you can achieve that, and that's just for all your disciples, is to teach a lot. You have to teach a lot. You have to teach a whole lot. And that's the only way people don't get educated by teaching them piece-mails. You have to teach a lot, intense. You know, if someone is a professor, for example, of any field, he has gone through hours of lectures. He has gone through years of it. So that's how that skill is developed. He has to be taught a lot. You have to be taught very well, and importantly so. In Mark's Gospel 16, it says in verse 15, And it says to them, Go into the water and pray to the gospel to every creature, He that will be saved, he that will be saved, he that will be saved, he shall be done. This is something for them to believe. In my name, the Shakasah, the demons are the word devils. They shall speak with new tongues. There are 18 saints, they shall stick up serpents. You do not need to show them, they shall lay hands on the sick, and they the sick shall recover. The Lord has spoken unto them, it was the word of heaven, and sat in the writing of God, and they went forth and preached everywhere, and they were working with them, themselves, and confirmed the word of the signs, what they say, man. Let me mention this while I go into this. It also means that in teaching people, you must be deliberate and intentional, and not rush. Now there are some things I'm teaching now, this is 2022, that I began gradually to introduce them to you in 2017. Now I picked the theme, or what I was teaching in 2017, earlier on I guess 2006 or 2007, which means that you can actually be deliberate about how you want, just like a school, a curriculum, you must be deliberate, and you must form your discipleship that way too. It's the same way. You must know what you want to achieve, and get that across. Now look at this, to preach the gospel, ho wa jaleon. And now the critical thing we've said so far, many of our teachings in the last few years, is that we need to really know that the Bible of Jesus was the Old Testament. So these instructions will come from the reading and study of the Old Testament. What we call the Old Testament, which is not really Old Testament, it's just so referred to in today's world. So the word, ho wa jaleon, you should by now have this in your Bible. One of the things we used to do back then when we were taught, is that your Bible must have been marked with different teachings. You should have commentaries on the Bible, so things should be constant. For example, there are things here, I'm going to show you some of my Bible in a moment, and it's in my Bible a lot. Now every time I want to teach about the use of the word basah, where you have the word kingdom news. Now I have, Isaiah 52, if you have observed, is my usual text. Now you can't see it, but you see I've done notes around it. So the moment I want to talk about it, I go to that portion to start. I only have notes in there already. So I go, all the texts are there, so I have my own Creator Center reference. I have my own commentaries, so I go and I say, it starts from here, notes are right there, and that goes into a couple of other things like that in my Bible. So you should have your Bible marked. There's nothing precious about having a fine looking Bible. It's not fashionable. Let me say that again. Your Bible is not part of your dressing, dressing too much. No, your Bible is supposed to be grilled. Sorry, I'm not about food right here. Drilled, I'm not hungry. Drilled appropriately. So you have it all. So I expect that now, your Mark 16, right, in Matthew 20. Your Mark 16 should already have the word kingdom information, kingdom news. Bessar, Isaiah 52, verse 7, and you do a note down in there. Praise the Lord. Does it make any sense? So it's a kingdom news, kingdom information. We said, the moment you talk about gospel, you must talk about the kingdom, the kingdom, what he's doing. And that's it. So it says we have to preach, and then it talks about the signs. The signs. Now we'll talk about kingdom, gospel, Christ Jesus. It goes to Genesis 1, 26, 28, subdued half dominion, that's kingdom language. Genesis 3, 15, the seed of the woman who bruised the head of the serpent. That's kingdom language, the word rush, on there. Then we have, of course, Genesis 17, verse 6, where it goes there to Abraham, that from your loins will come, and that's the contribution of the same promise, will come kings of nations. Then you have Genesis 49, where Jacob is now praying for verse 9 and 10. Judah said, the sceptre shall not depart from Judah. Okay? The Lord gave up from between his feet, and unto Shilu come, unto him shall the God be of the people be. So you go all the way, again, to Exodus 19, 5, and 6, where he says kingdom of priests. A peculiar treasure to me above all nations. Exodus 19, 5, and 6, so that's kingdom. Then you begin to see it in manifestation, because at the background of that, you have the, this is Romans 17, and in, is it 17 now? Where Moses, yeah, 17, where Moses instructs of Israel about not having kings, but when they choose kings from verse 14, like the other nations, he said they must choose a couple, the brethren, the sovereign king, and all that, which means they're not meant to have kings, but if they're going to have a king, the king must reflect to you, your mission, your vocation, your calling. So they will go to Fosamwell, where Samuel has been told, Israel and Fosamwell, they want a king. Verse 8, we want a king, so he has to go and pick, Saul, and Saul, you know, messes up that he picks David. So from the book of Psalms, you now, sorry, I, sorry, Fosamwell, you now have the word basa. But basa, using Psalms, has its roots in Genesis, Exodus, Peter, or not. I just gave you a teaching note, right? Ah, that's what I got for you? That's how to build it. So you get to David. David is David the lineage of Judah, yeah, and Abraham, yeah, so which is the genealogy eventually of the Messiah. So David picks on that theme, then his king gets anointed, and he's also going to have a child who would establish the kingdom, Samuel, Samuel, Samuel 12, 14, Psalm 2, verse 7, and all that, all that, Psalm 110, verse 1, can go on and on and on and on and on. And that goes, so Isaiah picks on the Davidic theme, and Isaiah says, I'll give you a few of the feet of them that God tied in, and says to Zion, the God-winneth, Zion is David's language, second Samuel, 5 and 7, Jerusalem is David's city, and then Jerusalem, Zion, you know, all that is David's language. So you go to David, then you go to Abraham, and then you go to the Genesis promise. Then David's son will now establish a kingdom that will be forever. So eventually, of course, you go to Ezekiel 34, Isaiah uses David a lot, Isaiah 40 through Isaiah 61, we have the word gospel, then you now have Ezekiel 34 that calls the Messiah David, if you're not even talking about David, my servant, okay? So you come, Jesus becomes that fulfillment of the seed of David, and so he knows resurrection, the current process of David, and Isaiah, and of course, Abraham, then he says, go and preach the news of my kingdom. So to understand that kingdom, you go back to Genesis, right? That is from where you announce the news of what he has accomplished. That's how to understand the phrase gospel. So the word gospel is an exegetical word. It requires exegesis, a skill to answer our questions, to interpret the events, and all of that. So the word gospel itself is one of the things we call the codified language, a phrase, an expression, an event, a sentence, a kaisman, a world, people, events, chronology, etc. Now you go to John, John 20, then it's something, John 20. We repeat this thing so that it's part of you. Is that clear? How you think. John 20? So one time, if someone who doesn't have that clear code of understanding, even talked about gospel, for example, you could be a friend, a cousin, an associate, a colleague at work, a colleague at school, you can get blessed with that background understanding when the fellow is just talking about the gospel, and then you have an understanding of what the gospel is, and you can learn from what the fellow is saying. Is that very clear? That's what exegesis does for you. So when you are listening even to someone that may not have your understanding of the subject, you are taking notes. Is that clear? Is that clear? That is exegesis. You are taking notes. And you, as he mentions the text, you write it to what he says, then you have, this is what I do. I'll take my notes, and I'll write the text, then I'll draw an arrow by the side, then I'll put the background of what he's saying, I'm listening to him, I'm thinking, I'm pulling notes down. At the end of the day, he'll be shocked at what I heard. Is that clear? There are some things. Why am I saying this in this service? John 20 and 21. The message is just to them again. Peace unto you. Peace is Iran. It's a governor word. It's where you have the word shalom, or shalom in Hebrew, which means completeness, soundness, reconciliation. Only you, as my father, assent me even so saying that you. Said to them, receive ye the holy ghost, whichever sins you remit, they are remitted unto them, whichever sins you retain, they are retained. We say that forgiveness of sins, Micah 7, 18, belongs to God alone. We say that you, pardon his transgressions. Psalm 103 and verse 4, who pardons all the transgressions. Isaiah 43 verse 25, then Exodus 34 verse 6. So why then are we told to forgive sins? Because he gave us his spirit. So we now act like agents. We are in easy vision likeness, and we now can carry out his task for the earth. So Paul was there for a gift as you have been forgiven. Ephesians 4 and 32, Colossians 3 and 13. So we forgive as we have been forgiven, because we have the spirit, as a proof of that forgiveness. So this is again a vocation responsible to have enough. So we're going to see all that in this study. Luke's Gospel 24, Lenin's Gospel. And 25. Then he said unto them, O fools, those who are far too many, all the prophets are spoken, or not Christ to have suffered. These things enter into his glory. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded them in all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. Now the point again is showing to us that this is where Jesus taught from. Moses and the prophets, all the prophets. Moses himself was a prophet. Exodus, sorry, let's say Exodus. In Jeremiah 18 verse 15 and 18, he was a prophet. And in Jeremiah 34 and verse 10, Moses himself was a prophet. So but then why is it mentioned first? Because of the chronology and the order by which the exegetical piece of information in the Old Testament books was laid. Verse 44, these are the words which I speak to you while I was here with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which you have written in the law of Moses, and the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. The opening, they are understanding the amount of scripture, so we have words, so near me. Now if you followed us to yesterday and Tuesday, and of course last year, I introduced another concept of study, which you call the motif. That is that recording pattern you see and dominant within scripture. And we said that this is how you achieve a so near me. You notice the motif, the recording pattern, and you're able to make it the connections. That also comes with the other educational unifiers and all of that. So now, our subject is the fruit of the spirit. But interestingly, I'm going to bring it up on the theme of walking in the spirit, and walking in the spirit. And so the ideas we have about it, and you have folks say that the gifts of the spirit are for power, and then the fruit of the spirit is for character. And that's sweet, but really, I don't think Paul intended to say those things that way. Now, we want to look at the word fruit of the spirit from the perspective of walking in the spirit. And that means I'm going to really teach from Galatians 5, 16 through the 22. But until we get to that point, just have that in mind. That's what we're teaching. Galatians 5, 16 through 22, 23. Very Galatians 6-1 as well. So that's the core of what we're teaching. Now, along the lines in the teachings in the spirit by the spirit, I did teach this subject, walking in the spirit of the spirit, both at the earlier stage in 2013, later stage in 2018 or 2017. And years before then, 2007 and 2008, we had a teaching called Walking in the Spirit, where this was also explained in talk. We have a book on that as well. And in this year, this other book is going to come out as walking in the spirit. But that's the same subject. Now, it is to help believers understand really where character comes from and why it's so. Because you could get into... That's important of teaching. You would discover certain things that you would see a non-believer do them. And you say, there was a difference. I was talking about a non-believer. He's not a believer in Jesus as Son of God. He doesn't believe that. He loves Jesus as a prophet, as a Muslim. But when I discussed this, it's a past of friend we had this conversation today, and then he said, we agreed that this fellow forgives people a lot. And a non-believer forgives people a lot. And I said, but that's not the character of our forgiveness. The acts may look like the same, but it is not the same thing. Now, I'm not going to tell you why now. We will get there. Amen. I'm a very slow speaker. I'm not so intelligent. So it takes me a while to finish a sentence. So the walk... Now, in 1928, in 20, it says to observe... Now, the word observe is the word terriu. What things, however, I have commanded you, and lo, I'm with you. Except you're not reading what they are reading. That takes you back into the instructions it gives to them in the synoptic gospel. Synoptic, for a gospel. So, you know, during that time that he said, I give you... Look at John 13. A new commandment I give on to you, John 13, 34. Now, when his disciples are writing, do not forget, these are afterthoughts writing, which is... it's an interpretation, right? Come on. Synoptic interpretation, right? And the book of John. So when he uses entolay, which is the word commandment, and he says, you love one another as I have loved you. That you also love another. And do not forget that they asked Jesus a question in Matthew 22, 32, 38, and he said, what is the great commandment, same word, of the Lord? Then he says, here, Israel, Matthew 12, 29, the Lord your God is one. Thou shalt love the Lord your God with all your heart, might and soul. Okay? Then he's asked the first. So the second is like the first one. Thou shalt love your neighbor as yourself. Now, I've heard people say, love your neighbor as yourself is Old Testament. Love your neighbor as I have loved you is New Testament. No. The word new commandment, now you are a saints community church, new commandment means what? Renewed. I am repeating it again to you. Love one another as I have loved you, so shall you love one another. Now, this statement is heavy, heavily, and highly codified. Now, notice later writers like Paul will now say Romans 13 verse 8. Hedda loves, for Hedda loves another as fulfilled the Lord. Then he writes, verse 9, what we call from the Ten Commandments. He has fulfilled the Lord. Love, what can know you to his neighbor, verse 10, therefore love is fulfilled not the Lord. I'll stop there because that may rush us into the subject too early, but be too early. But the point is that if you know how to study, it therefore implies that just like Paul, when he's talking about love, he's referring to the Ten Commandments. Come on, come on. Are you there? And what we call Ten Commandments. And when Jesus is saying a new commandment, it means I'm renewing the commandment to you. Then he puts the entire commandment in a codified language, a phrase that brings in a whole world into that statement. So now I'll pause there and just quickly say where he says to observe whatsoever commandment. Okay, Matthew 28. He's going to observe whatever things I have commanded you, sorry, lo, I'm with you. Whatever I have commanded you. Lo, I am with you to observe Terrio. And we're going to see how Terrio is an interpretation of the word by Moses. So it takes us back therefore, if Paul, Galatians 5, says walk in the Spirit, verse 16, and you shall not fulfill the lost over flesh. That takes us quickly back to Genesis. Now in Galatians, the book of Galatians, observe, I'm not going to do much of an intense study of this, but observe this phrase, I'm going to jump the text, but just for to highlight certain things in the book of Galatians. Now in Galatians chapter 2, there was the concept of circumcision. Circumcision is a Genesis conversation. It's meant to be symbolic of the Covenant. In Galatians 2, yeah, in Galatians 3, you hear about the works of the law. Galatians 3, then Galatians 2 to 21, you hear about righteousness. Righteousness is Genesis 15 and 6, Sedecha, and that question is Greek, Sedecha is Hebrew. There are Galatians 3, so you will know Paul's texts in verse 8. The scriptures, now I'm starting from 6 actually, as God, as Abraham believed God, it's a concept to him for righteousness. So Paul's audience are reading well. Genesis. Good. So did they also read circumcision Genesis? Oh yeah, they did. So now he says here, in Galatians 2, 20, I lead by the faithfulness of the Son of God. Son of God is Exodus 4, 22, 23, where God says, let my people go, let Israel go. Israel is my son, BNA, and false bond, Bacchora, my son and false bond. Oh, they were going to be shot. Israel is my son. Now he says the faithfulness of the Son of God. So that's a Genesis, they will have Exodus, equally is here. Then Galatians 3, righteousness act Genesis 15 and 6. So in verse 8, now verse 7, the children of Abraham. Children is genealogy that takes us to Genesis 3, 5, 15, the seed of the womb and the seed of Abraham. So Genesis, so Galatians 3, 8, the scriptures were saying that God would justify the evil through faith, preached before the gospel to Abraham, saying in these shall all the nations be blessed. So which means that a pile of text here is through Abraham. We are reading Abraham. Then he goes on and on, verse 16 to Abraham and his seed where the promises, promises, promises, promises made. Promise, now epangelia, promise is another word for a covenant. Covenant and promise, you say Abraham, God give him a promise. And then Moses goes to Egypt and says the promise got made to Abraham. So it's, we're in Exodus right now, we're also in Genesis. Are you together? So he says, not to seeds as a main verse of 1. So see the Genesis 3, 15 through to Genesis again, then mentions the covenant. This is 430 years after we have what you call the law in Sinai. This is what God gives Abraham by promise. So we are reading Abraham. Notice how long, how much we have Abraham in this text. Galatians 3, the whole of Galatians 3, we have Abraham. Galatians 4, verse 22, of Abraham, through to 31. Then we have, so anyway, that already gives you a background of what is going on. So Galatians 3, we have Abraham. So you have the pilot text will have Genesis into Exodus. We'll see that shortly. That leads to Galatians 5, liberty, bondage. He builds the bondage concepts on Isaac and Ishmael, then talks about the flesh. So Paul begins to talk about the flesh as a concept with Isaac and Ishmael. Then talks about walking in the Spirit. You will put the loss of flesh. So which means, we come back to this shortly. It means therefore, okay, it mentions bond of the Spirit. Now bond of the Spirit, Galatians 3, to begin in the Spirit, to be bond of the Spirit, is also in Galatians 4. Galatians 4, verse 29, bond of the Spirit, because it has Isaac there, which is what it means about Isaac and Ishmael. Okay, so which means that we would understand walking in the Spirit by reading their story. Is that clear? All right, good. So the word walk, therefore, Genesis 12-1, is, now the Lord said to Abraham, get thee out of thy country, and from thy kingdom, from thy fathers house, Genesis 12-1, to a land thou shalt mark the word land, get thee out. So the word walk there, get out, is the word alak, is the word walk, walk to the land. That's the first thing, walk to the land. Then verse 4, Abraham departed. Then verse 9, he John eats. So we find Abraham has a Johnny. Okay? A Johnny. Now I'm going to pick that theme later on where the writer of Hebrews says that there were strangers and pilgrims, as though God hated earth. Absolutely that's not what it means. So he John eats. Now let's see one more, Genesis 13. And now this is where Lot separates Abraham and he goes after Sodom. Abraham let him go. And then what did the God say? So the word walk here, one, is to go to the land God gave him, right? Come on. So the word walk in Abraham is to go to the land God gave him. Now that's one, but that's not where he stops. So Genesis 13, where Lot leaves Abraham, walks away, goes to Sodom, and then in verse 14, the Lot said to Abraham, after that Lot was separated from him, lift up your eyes now, and look up from the place where you are, not what southward, eastward, and westward. For all the land which you see, now where would he have, how would he look? I mean no matter how far your eyes are, you can't see everywhere, you know, even in this auditorium. So this has to be a vision, either a vision or imagination, but it's a vision. Genesis, I'll give it to you and to your seed forever. And I'll make thy seed as the dust of the earth, so that man can number the dust of the earth, so shall thy seed then be numbered. Let's take 17 together, arise and walk through the land. So notice, he's to walk through the land, now he's to walk through the land. That's the same word, alak. He's to walk through the land, now he's to walk through the land. Now Genesis says God gave Abraham a land, Paul says he gave Abraham a promise. Moses says he gave Abraham a land. So the land that God gave to Abraham, which he asked him to walk through and walk through, is the land that Paul calls promise, and Moses also called promise. Is that clear? Now Moses is supposed to walk through the land and walk through the land. So let's back up a little bit and find other individuals that walked. Genesis 5 and 22, Enoch. Enoch is a prophet. Enoch is a prophet. Abraham also was a prophet, right? Genesis 27 and Abai. So this is well, Abai, and A-B-I, Abraham is a prophet. And by the budget of that office, he has a divine appointment to interpret supernatural things in the earth, etc., etc., visions, revelations, so it's a spiritual office in that instance. Now Enoch is a prophet who walked with God and he regarded me to Sela. Then 24, Enoch walked with God. So, now definitely, did Abraham walk with God? Yes he did. So look at this one. Genesis 6 and 9, these are the directions of Noah. Noah was a judgment of the churches and Noah walked, this name, Noah walked with God. Noah walked with God. Very good. So put that over the word, alak, we have Enoch, Noah walked with God, alak. Now, look at Genesis 3 and 8. And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. So the garden, which is the word, g-a-n, in the Hebrew means a protected place, a secure place. What E then is luxury, special. So man didn't make a gardener, but God made a garden, Genesis 3, 8, and put man in. No doubt this is a pictorial, figurative expression of a sacred place where God was dwelling and he brought man to co-dwell with him there. Does it make sense? Does it make sense? Alright, now, so when we talk about the curse, it happened to, it came, came Genesis 4, verse 6, you went out from the presence of the Lord and notice what is called the presence of the Lord. The east of Eden, you went out of Eden. Same thing, Genesis 3, 23, they sent forth Adam and Eve from the garden to the land from whence they were taken, placed them at the east of the Garden of Eden. So the Garden of Eden is a picture of a tabanaco, a tabanaco where God tabanaco. If you were around on Monday and Tuesday, we did some story along those lanes, right? I'm going to pick it up again on Sunday then, to make sure. So it's a tabanaco. Now that word, God walking, features only two times. Alright? In Old Testament books. The Vedic verse 26, the Vedic verse 26 and 12. I'll start from 11. I will set my tabanaco among you and my soul shall not abhor you. I'll set it among you. I'll set my tabanaco among you. So ghost tabanaco, look up guys, let me just see this very quickly. From Genesis, who makes where God dwells? God himself, right? Eden, he made it put man in there. So here again, I will set my tabanaco among you. That is not what Moses built. And he says, I will walk among you, I will be your God, you will be my people. So the walk of God is the tabanacling of God, amongst men. Now this is repeated, this is in the room of chapter 23 and verse 14. That's in 14 or 14. For the Lord thy God walks in the midst of the camp, in the midst of the camp. So again, tabanaco language. Paul who tells us this is fulfilled in church, in the church of Jesus. So in chapter 26 Paul references this by saying in 14, Being in an unequally yoke together we don't believe us for what fellowship and righteousness we go in righteousness, what communion and light and darkness, and what comfort and Christ with brilliant, what path he that believes is not infidel, what agreement, now pay attention there, are the temple of God with idols. For you are, now what is the temple of God with idols? That includes the stuff in Genesis 3, right? Yeah good. Then he says, for you are the temple of the living God, as God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, I will be their God, they will be my people. Wherefore, because of that, come out from amongst them, be you separate, say, the Lord, touch not your own cleansing and I will receive you. So that's tabanaco language where God will dwell with his people. So let's talk about a little bit. God now gave Abraham a land to walk through the land. Paul will say, what he gave Abraham, is the gospel. Galatians 3, in these shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. So he gave Abraham a land. Now we have said this over and over again, that God communicates in language, you could understand. So land there is meant to give a picture of a supernatural spiritual reality. So Paul picks on this theme and he does it strongly. Paul, you must know how scriptures of the New Testament writers interpret this text. Let's get back to Galatians again as we have said. Verse 8. The scriptures were saying that God would justify the eating through faith, preached before the gospel to Abraham, saying in these shall all the nations be blessed. So that they which are of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. Now most of the time this text stops by just, I believe I'm justified etc. But Paul expands this narrative, Galatians 3,6 we mentioned that earlier. Then he talks about in verse 13, Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. Now in the book of redeem, it is about Gal. Genesis 15 where God said to Abraham, your sins shall be found in the land of strangers. I will deliver them and redeem them. So he becomes the king's man redeemer and that's what he called Moses to do in Exodus 3 to 6. So it says redeemed them from the curse of the law, been made a curse first, it's written in the curse of heaven, the hands of the one and the tree. That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ that we might receive, it is a land now. It says the promise of the spirit. So Paul doesn't mention land, it says the promise of the spirit. Or better still the promise spirit. Now to Abraham, do not forget again, please look up again, remember when Abraham walked in the land, did he walk on a parcel of land or in the spirit? Don't forget that. Abraham's walk through the land, through the land was where? In the spirit, is that making sense? Okay, Noah walking with God was walking in what? The spirit. What about Enoch? Was walking in the spirit, is it making sense? Okay good. So the use of land therefore must be clear to us. It's going to help us understand because if you impose audience you will be studying the land. That's what you are studying. Like I said, the epistles have an assumption that you are in post-church. And that assumption is not in your favor. Because you are not in post-church. You are not there in your earlier studies. And unfortunately you thought that as long as you read post letters you don't need to read Moses. You don't need to read Elijah Isaiah. And that assumption now is against you. Rather than read what they read because to quickly come to that conclusion that he's talking about the spirit, meanwhile the text is reading talked about land. Who's following what I'm saying here? So you must make the connection and understand the exegesis that he used. And that exegesis like we've said over time cannot be unique to Paul. Even though it's not as unique to him, the exegesis must have been used by earlier prophets. Come on, are you there? Very good. So Paul goes to the Gospel, then he says, And to Abraham and his seed where the promises made, He said not and to see there's many but there's one and to see which is Christ. So he mentions the covenant and all that. Now notice, he now says in verse 26. Of course when you talk about bondage, you know, free from captivity, the children of faith, verse 22, that goes to Exodus. Children. Where that was seed of Abraham is used in the collective term is exodus. Because don't forget, he had just Isaac. So the collective term children is exodus 422. Is there, is my son, my firstborn, that this is Isaac. Okay? Now Paul has developed a multilateral eminence by saying, is not as too many but to one. So just like there was Zera, what I'm about to say. There was Zera, said to Eve, was singular and is also plural. Okay? Which means we are going to find predecessors who are in the lineage of that one seed. So just like that, Isaac, right? Then the nation, then the singular seed. That's the eminotic polar's employee and that's done by all Old Testament authors. We'll speak on that later. So what he says here, that which is Christ. So 22, 23, but faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up on the faith which should have been revealed. Wherefore the law was as cool, must have been brought to Christ, that we might be justified by faith. Now quickly go to verse 26. You are altered of God by faith in Christ Jesus. 27, as many as have been baptized into Christ as exodus are put on Christ. Then he says in verse 3, chapter 4, And when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, okay? That goes back to chapter 3, 15, made under the law, as Abraham then through Moses, to redeem them that were under the law. Exodus 6, 6, through to 8. That we might receive euthesia, adoption of sons. God adopted the people as his sons. That's what he does to Israel. Euthesia. And since you are sons, God sent forth the spirit of his son into your heart. Then he says, crying out by Father. So you know that Paul is teaching exodus here. Let's just see something very quickly. I'll elaborate later on. He says, there for that no more is heaven but a son. If a son did an heir of God through Christ, I'll be, when you knew not God, he now says, you did service unto them which by nature are no gods. That is exodus. Hydro-lattery. Now that you have known God, or rather known of God, how turn you again to the weak and beggarly elements, when to you desire again to be in bondage you observed, days, months, times and years. So he talks about that. Then he says in verse 19, these are all exodus themes. So in verse 21, now this is how you must get this. Because of the use of the word law here. Tell me, you desire to be under the law. Do you not hear the law? For it is written, Abraham had two sons, one by a born woman, the other by a free woman. Now that's Genesis 16 verse 15. Yes, it's 21 verse 2. So he calls Genesis here, the law, the no more. So let's look at the concept of son, collective and singular. Matthew 2.15, Jesus goes to Egypt, and Matthew reads, Osirah 11 verse 1, in Matthew 2.15, out of Egypt, have I called my son? Out of Egypt, out of Egypt, have I called my son? Osirah 11 verse 1. Now Osirah was talking about Israel. Matthew is saying, Jesus embodies Israel. Just like the nations that God spoke to Abraham, I embody progressive Isaac. He says Jesus embodies, let's just say quickly, the church. Now don't forget, later on, in Matthew 1, the baptism of John, Matthew 3, 16 and 17, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Psalm 2 verse 7, thou art my son, as David, Genesis 22 verse 2, take your son, your only son. I, there, 42 verse 1, my beloved servant. So which means, the servant, the son, okay, all said, promised, planned through that, is found in Jesus. Then in Matthew 17, and verse 5, this is my beloved son in whom I am well pleased. Here ye him. Look at that one, that is, again, in Jeremy 18, 15 and 18, that's Moses saying, the prophet, Lord your God, raise unto you like unto me, from the bread-bread, him shall you hear. He does not hear the prophet, will be destroyed. Jeremy 18 verse 15, and if you all get without that, much later. So all the things there, in Galatians, are in Genesis and Exodus, primarily, and explain it literally, we're going to get to this in a moment. So there are Genesis, Exodus things, things, circumcision, right? What about walking in the spirit? Is he Exodus? Sorry, is this Genesis? Yeah, we'll get to Exodus as well. What about promise? Genesis, Exodus, okay? Born of the spirit, that's Genesis. To walk is Genesis. To not deal with the word flesh. Now Paul had interpreted flesh as human effort. And then he calls that Ishmael, who will see why he says that later. Now, so that we don't get careless with the use of law again, warned you over time, not to use the word law carelessly. Galatians 6, let's start from 4, 5, sorry. Verse 18, if you are led of the spirit, you are not under the law. Verse 23, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. Now you notice there are what he calls the fruit of the spirit. Now let me just look at this. Why would Paul use fruit? Because the text is using, speaking about what? Land. Are you there? Use your fruit, k-a-r-p-o-s, because the text is teaching from, if you are in his audience, what you are going to use is what? Land. How to act in the land. What the land, the actions in the land. Fruit of the spirit. But because, like I said, there's a presumption that you are in his audience, you probably not read the text. So that's why he used the word fruit, k-a-p-o-s. Then in Galatians 6, verse 2, there are you one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. So it calls the law of Christ. Now do not forget that he mentions Christ with Abraham in Galatians 3, verse 6, the law of Christ. So law is a genesis, in fact, Genesis 26, and verse 5. Because Abraham obeyed my voice, that's like walking in the spirit, kept my charge. Is that it? Is that it? Come on. My commandments, my statutes, and my laws. The interesting thing is, you will not find any codified laws with Abraham until you get to Moses. You will see. But he says that Abraham obeyed. So these that Abraham did, is this the law of bondage or the law of Christ? That's the law of the promise. So he says, be therefore, there on the body in Galatians 6, 2, and so fulfill the law of Christ, the word no-mos. Now again, the word no-mos is a multilateral word. It could be law of bondage, law of the fruit of life in Christ, the love, sin, and death. So you must notice what's the context of what he's saying. And that's critical. Let me show you something quickly about the use of context. Sometimes, even translations, I had to quickly, there was a, I don't like, I just have commentaries do, but I have to advise this in the commentary, not the commentary, sorry, in the translation I have to do in language that is not English, that I'm working with. And so it was first Timothy 3, I put down Facebook today, but let me just say it again here, two thousand use of words. Now in first Timothy 3, one of the things that Paul says, Timothy should not ordain, should not ordain a bishop. Now don't forget, Paul writes in Timothy in the FSL, FSL has their issues. Paul didn't know that, so this country is going to really someday. Paul, don't worry, we have. So first Timothy 3 and 6, he says the bishop must not be a novice, less being lit up with pride if false in the conscience of the devil. Now, many translations I checked, last year I did that check, this is 2020, 2021, 2020, I did a check on those real scholastic translations and I checked at about one, about one forty-something. There are many translations, over all the thousands. I'm saying the ones that are recognized, they are reliable when it comes to original language, for a one forty-something. And I know just two, in terms of these words, actually. Now, all that can get is wrong, some will say it must not be a new convert. Right? Now that looks easy because the word here is new force, where you have the word new fight. Now interestingly, this is the only text where Paul uses this word. It's not repeated anywhere. So it's believed that what Paul is saying, don't put a new convert in the form of leadership. Now the question, this is where I held that translation and I'm sure that except one of the translations was, it's predate the King James and I think another person I saw, I'm not sure the other one, because I don't have access to all translations. I'm sure that this one's got to be the only one around where it is that will have this meaning. And I said that you don't just use it. So most translations, they didn't pay attention to just three weeks, they just left you. Sometimes when I translate it, you are particular about some text, more than some. So some of these just leave it. So I think many just left it with new converts, new converts. So I said that, because in the first one you have to do a little bit of reviews, a lot of, so that's why I said now, if you say a new convert can be a bishop, how new should, how old should the convert be? That leaves a challenge. Because I remember one guy was saying that, he said, why are you teaching new creation or new creation? Are you teaching new converts? And he was so fond of that he's a pastor. So the point here is how new? So I said no. That if we observe, right, he gave instructions for the Drakonia, the associates of the pastors. Of course, a lot of people agree that Drakonia is actually a pastor, just that they think it's a different office. So the Drakonia is an associate. So the Dikin, which is clear in the text, is meant to be the proven stage before a man becomes a bishop. So Paul is saying this guy, and this was the last thing he said about, he must have good reports, I'm going to do that without. So you see six and seven are like a singular phrase. So by then you get seven likewise. He now mentions the Dikin, who are like the associates. Then he says, they can teach, they can hold the bishop of the faith. Then he was saying, they must be proved. Tested. Then he was 13, they, they'll have used the office of a Dikin well, purchased themselves a good degree, and great boldness, which means that from 13 a man becomes available to become an overseer. So therefore, when he says, must not be new, what he's saying there is, he must have served as a Dikin. Who's following what I'm saying here? Are you following what I'm saying here? So the new find there is, he's not new to service. He's not new to serving the church. He's not new to being tested. We have tested him. Now, guys, let me ask you this. This variation I've put to it, it introduces a new thinking pattern, right? And it helps to guide your latex. So words, you must be careful with words. When Paul says, rightly dividing the auto-tomio principle, and which has been agreed in non-biblical terms, is used by surgeons and those who do careful things, careful. You don't just talk generally. In fact, ever since I started getting involved in this kind of work, I've been very careful, but extremely more careful, because I've seen the import of glossing over words. It can become a big problem. So the carefulness, and the worship of God is tied to words, the carefulness is critical. I found out, for example, that there are transitions that they did not translate what Paul said, or what the auto-tomio principle said. They just translated it within their own denomination. I will mention their names. And it's nothing James. So when it comes to law, you must find the context. As we are saying, law was used for who? For who? For Abraham. Genesis 26 verse 5. When Paul, for example, said the law of the spirit of life in Christ, and the law of sin and death, that is Genesis 2, 16 and 17. It was the law of faith. It was faithfulness, believing in it. Genesis 2, 16 and 17. Law should be exegeted so that you don't carry the wrong meaning. If Jesus gave us spiritual meals of growth, and first we regard from the law of Moses, then we must know that the use of the word law is not antithetical to the gospel. Let me review a few things. The reason why the text is antithetical to the gospel is because the text must be read in land. The text they are reading was land. So if the text is land, and I must mention this, the use of land, whether Jesus or Jesus is not with me, is codified. With something wider than agricultural space. No. It is a sacred, holy, divine place where God is worshipped. I will repeat it again. That in 2 Kings 6, where Naaman said to Elijah, can I take the dirt where you stand? I take it with me and worship. Look at it, worship knower than God. So that means that the essence of the land was worship. So let's strike back to something I'm going to teach on Sunday and Sunday's after. When Jesus said, in Jerusalem, the woman at the world said, this guy said, we want to worship God. I first say in this place, the Sanctuary of the Jews said, in time it's coming, that neither in Jerusalem, nor in this way, we worship God. He said, he says, but the Father seeketh through worshipers who worship me spirit and in truth. God is a spirit. So now, listen to this. Jesus is not saying, right, he has come to a place to worship. He has interpreted that land for you. And that land is both with a people and in a place. Let's leave that Sunday and Sunday's after anyway. So the use of fruit must be because the text they are reading is called land, kaphos. And don't forget, that is why even children were called seeds, seeds, zera. So all that comes to mind, fruit of righteousness, fruit of the spirit, all that comes to mind. Because the woman was seen as a land, right? That's why she said, the woman, land, seed, excelsior that as well. So now observe what the apostles, what Paul here now calls walking in the spirit, Galicians. Again, seeds where they sat. Galicians 5, that's the thing. So in the Holy Spirit, brethren, we have been called onto liberty. Let me say it free for you now at this point, so that you can write it somewhere. The text he read here as liberty is the Sabbath. So you can put it, we have been called to the Sabbath. Or call it the rest of God. Only don't use the Sabbath as an occasion to serve the flesh. Remember, Jesus told them when he said, you couldn't heal the Sabbath. What is the Sabbath for? Is it not to assist and help? It's a but an occasion to serve the flesh, rather by love to serve one another. For all the law is fulfilled in one word, in this, that thou shall love thy neighbor as yourself. Look at the next verse. If you bide and devour one another, take it that you will not be consumed one another. And that's very important. When you find a church or ministers, and they are chewing on people, and don't join people that their job is just to look for faults. When they are done looking for faults, and they are not seen anybody, they not face each other. You go, that's out there. I was sharing something in one forum today. I was talking about, I was just giving a story about leadership general, this is not a church, but because I'm a bambonigan, I have to mention that. So I said to them, I said, usually, when a group of people, and they are together, and they are after someone, and I try to explain. I said, for example, when you see a church, it's after another church, and they are criticizing them. It's not the love of God. It's not difficult. Nigeria is 200 million, Africa is way more. It's a church downtown. Maybe that's 5,000 members. And then you put your teeth, put your teeth constantly on them. The question is, are there just 5,000 members there? There are still about 19 million, now there are 9,000. Why are you fix on that 5,000? At least, if you are particular, you do not perish in. There are 3 million that are perish. They are not going up. But Bambonigan is just jealous, and that's what the police say here. And you have a group, and everybody, I said, now, that group is a problem. I said to them, this one, I said, that group, they don't love one another. They only love to hit somebody together. I said, now, any of that group, they must not succeed. The women who want to try to succeed, they say, mmm, they just focus, because they are trained to just be fighting. I remember those two, they were 27 years ago, they were a group of guys, and they all just watched it. They said, when they are done chewing on everybody, they will chew on themselves. What they would do to themselves would be worse. It came to pass. So how to judge your motives? Look, if you bite one another, what is it that you will be consumed over another? Sometimes when I say, look, you must define your goal. Your goal in life should not be to pursue someone else's, someone else who is pursuing his own dreams. You should not do that in life. So I am not saying that, I am saying, this is by the way what is happening. I am saying, in Dangote, they are taking everything in Nigeria. I said, how? They are taking everything in Nigeria. They said, look, nobody can do cement again. I said, it is not true. There are cement companies in this country. I said, no, what is wrong with you? It is envy. Envy. Do you understand? I said, there are spaces all over the place. I said, is the one that is in the binary? Is the one that is was, ah, I do not understand. Did they give it to him in his house? Where were you? I said, I was seeing him in the vestibule. Would they have given you as a project? No. You can't see this. So funny. I said, I perceive that who told this guy? His father who is grieving. That is classmates. So I told the story. There was one Nigerian man, we were having a contract some years ago. He was going to owe us some money. So I was really trying to get someone to talk to him. He wouldn't do him. I just told the guy, I said, okay, another man, I tell him to say, ah, don't worry, I will talk to him, you will give your money. So I took the phone and called the man. He said, I thought he would say, ah, you won't pay for him. He said, hmm, he didn't even understand my own issue again. He said, all those young boys, they are too greedy, they want to own everything in Nigeria. I could see what's trying to plant in seed. He said, so how much did you call him? I said, I will sort it out. Because this man I was going to take as my mentor, this is going to be my business mentor. I said, ah, because by the time you say that about me, I know that's what I want to do. So I just caught it short. And this man had told me when I was in his office and he said, he said, look, I was talking to him, I said, I will have done this. But as though he knew that conversation, I didn't tell him. He said, if I build for this place now, you just say, hmm, he mentioned, he said, I'm okay, that's my boy, he wants to take everything. He said, but if he's somebody else, they won't say anything. I said, hmm, so these people know. You see, it can't be the business world. You don't know, say, everybody loves me. I'll help you. There are those even in your staff that are looking at you and saying, these are gacha, yours in our head. What was even in your head? Yeah, bring the head. What did you put there? Oh my God, how do you teach yourself? Your company, don't leave your boss alone. Right? Don't join other people. You don't have anything to do. Just watch. Watch how this man is doing it right. The area you can't copy, don't copy, look at it. You see some things that you can learn. You know what I mean? The United States in staff, please, all of you staff, just crumpling. That's why you will not leave that room. MD is going out with, that's all you are talking about. Is that GM? I think he's dating that, come on. You are just going to be empty. Oh, you are in the gist. Have you gone to this way, Papi, this way, who says this? Hey, if you want to hear, I thought that I saw that he said, the neighbor is up, and I'm looking at the other, oh, hey, say, Papaki, that machine, they copy him out. So they call me, I'm not drinking it. Ah, what are you doing? You see, like, no kind of friends you have, he's there to pay, I have this for you. That's what he does, I have this for you. He needs to have this. I have this for you, I have this for you. I say, you know, bring this. Say, deal, ah, you know, he's not my calling. I'm a boy, I'm a boy. I'm a boy. Oh, it's this thing, Galician's 5. Hope you have learned something. So I was telling me, say, Pastor, I said, if you open my head now, saints community, doctrine, gospel, money. I don't have time for this one, you are saying. You see, if you focus on your goal, you will beat that goal. Why you focus on your own life? You'll beat the focus. You know, I sit down, somebody is eating, I say, I don't, someone came to me, I say, if you like, let him eat joy. Let him eat imperial leather. Is it just luxury or eating? Eat anything I tell you, or should I do do? Eat it. You know what I say, it is good to have people like jealous of you. It's not good for no one to be jealous of you. If nobody is jealous of you, you are nothing. Somebody jealous of you. I've left my teacher, it is good way. Galician's 5. Hope you learned something from that. Put it in your head. And it's this thing in church, when you see the Buddha talking, talking, they are on pension, spiritually. Because if you just had that one of your disciples, something happened, you are already afraid, you are praying. You won't have time. But when you are just, we are having a conference. I didn't go. I don't know. What about my disciple? Who is that? Empty. You don't have to say empty. I will say empty but... Come, you are just a... So in your office, if I don't know what is going on, let me give you one more just. I gave my staff, my colleagues at work, this lecture last week. I said we all come together, we go to Bushiri, I go there very early. So when I was focused then, I was just saying, then I will be carrying empty paper all over the Lagos. There is something mocking me. They say it with me, they joke, I am a little bit of a judgment. I know something. I know how to ignore mockery. I know what you want, results, so you guys are together, you sit down, we go into Amala. Somewhere at the bush behind the office, I say, when I come in, you are the chair girl below. And then you are the Abilio. I just get like this. Then you are, this is your paper, 8,000 minutes. I just put it in there. And then how many, so one day we now met someone, when Mr. Abilio sat down, to finish talking. The second guy, he said, if it is just 100k, how many? I looked at him, he didn't see what I saw. I left that place less than one year. Me and that person, we formed the company that was not making billions. I saw it. It is it. But it was two years of trekking with nothing. You know, you are just trekking, you just have hope. But I didn't have time for this. I'm just saying, that's how I met my mentor. So the phone call, I said, I said, I don't know much about you. I said, who told you? The person that you said told me about him, I spoke to the person last 8 months ago. I said, I like you. So, so and so and so I became, and it took me to many African countries. I said, you know, this is just the focus. You know, you are my meeting. You are listening to the people that have the gist. They have the information. You are just there, you see. Loved the tongue. What is that? You can't. Okay, let's move on. I don't know what I said this day. This is very unlike me. But please, focus on the other people. Are you the one that last work is before? Who are the more play-offs? You should have played to the left. Give them football. As modern, you cannot have the ball. You better be focused. Are you following my boy? Somebody was writing on article on Facebook, and I said, this guy is the report. Nigeria is finished. And all his investments are here. This one, this one, this one. Don't let anybody... I'm saying, you know, focus. Focus. Listen to the writing. You know the guy that I said, is that guy, I said, my brother's passing it. What's my word? That's... I don't know. I'll give you the gist of the... People, that's just your life. These are the people. Where would you have ideas? All your hard drive. Is you with people? On a move? You know, you can not be deleted. If you remove it, it will form a system. Listen. Galatians, let me run. Hope you are learning something. I'll be teaching later in the year. Common sense for Christians. Amen. We are in verse 15. If you bought and developed another, take it. That you be not consumed one of another. This I say there. Work in the spirit. And you shall not be lost in it. So what is he talking about? He said that when the law is fulfilled, what you will come up with is working in the spirit. When the law is fulfilled. Let me just run through something and then we close. Look at Exodus 20. One of the wrong teachings about the law. But I got 10 commandments. Is the idea that Israel right? We are given 10 commandments for salvation. That is not true. Look at the opening statement. Or what we call the 10 commandments. Don't forget I have taught you. It's actually 10 dava. 10 words. So the way it is, and I check the format of the ancient national treatise. The way they write the covenant. The way it is was this. Watch this. They wrote. This is what I am about to say. And listen very well. The 10 commandments was like a two page thing. This page would be like you wrote like words of a singular sentence. If in today's language, it will have no full stop or comers. It will be a continuous statement. It will be a normal not full stops. So that's how it's going to flow. Now the second part of it now have the same documentation. Which means look at what I am about to say. God is saying you reflect me. This is me. You reflect me when you do this. That's what he is saying. Now look at the opening in Exodus 20. Now just wrap it up from there. Exodus 20. And verse 1. It says and God's make all these words say words. Right? And you notice that only in 10, in two places was it numbered. Only two places. Exodus 34. Exodus 4. This is just quick study. And one minute please. Okay. Verse 28. And it wrote upon the tables the words of the continent. Notice the words. It says the 10 commandment. Now this is important. Because it's going to become part of our exegesis. The word commandment there is also words. 10 words. 10 words. Now that statement was repeated in the Terorimie 413. 10 words. It wrote upon two tables of stone. 10 words. Now. So it's a continuous statement. 10 words. That's why they could say in New Testament writings that you can sum it up. That is, it's like when you read all these words together and you want to read them as a single piece. This is what you are going to come with. So Exodus 20. And what's going to come here. Look at the opening statement. So you know that they are not words. They are not words to say in that sense. It says, I have the Lord thy God as too. Which have brought you out of the land of Egypt. Out of the house of bondage. So they are not instructions for salvation. They are instructions for those who are saved. I have brought you out. Then he says, you shall have no other gods besides me. You shall not make continue. Look at this one. No other gods, verse 3. Make no craving image. Verse 4. Don't buy yourself to any god. Verse 5. Verse 7, don't take my name in vain. There was it. Notice that he is the same statement explaining itself. Explaining itself. So they are 10 words. That's what they are. 10 words. 10 words. And so, just like God called Abraham, and he asked him to walk in the land, because Israel, these are instructions for that land. And he says, this is how you are going to walk in that land. Because when he says that they must walk in the land, God, if they are in the wilderness, where would they get gods? It means when you get to Kenya, the world, when you see idol worship, when you see the Kenyanite gods, you know the Fatimidic gods, he says, you will walk in the spirit. And you will not fulfill the lost of Egypt. And so, we are going to more explanation. You will see it in the conduct of those who walk in that land. In the Old Testament pictures. Whether it's Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, and all of them. Amen. You blessed. Santa Fe, thank you, God, praise.