 Let's raise one hand together. Let's sit together. Our Father, name of your Son Jesus, in this service, we receive your word, not that the words of men, but like your very word, that is effectually at work in us, that believe. This evening, revelation of your Son flows out of our minds, gives us understanding, our thoughts on your purpose and plan in the earth today. Together ask the church, will behold Jesus Christ your Son, if nothing sees us in him. In this service, it is glorified as we are edified to get out of the body of Christ. Amen. Matthews Gospel 28, looking at the work of the Spirit in the earth, the walk and the walk, that's the two things, W-A-L-K and W-O-R-K, the walk and the walk of the Spirit. So that week we get Matthew 28 first quickly. Matthews Gospel 28 and verse 18. And Jesus came and spoke unto them, saying, Oh, for you shall have power given on me and heaven on earth, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things that have commanded you and loomed with you always, even unto the ends of the world, then it says, Amen. Now, 19 is talking about training people. That's the word Matthew 2. And we said training gives you skills, right? You develop skills. So suddenly I also said that the skills can also be caught. In other words, they are contagious. There are things that become contagious or contagious. When you are in a local assembly, so training cannot be, you can't be disciple in isolation. It has to be with people. And we said, one of the things you derive from that is the skill of exegesis, the ability to ask good and intelligent questions, all right, when you are reading the scriptures, good and intelligent questions. Now, the opposite of that is to be foolish. You know, in Luke's Gospel 24 and 25, based on the kind of conclusions they made, the kind of attitude they had, Jesus said, Oh, you fools, are slow of heart, bravado's cadet, slow of heart. Now, it's not unresponsive to God's word. You're thinking. And I said, the way you approach scriptures, sometimes it's based on the kind of thinking that you have. I must mention this. When I began to listen, for example, to someone like H.W. Kenyon and through the help of my friends, he'd help me think. And that's contagious. Sometimes he just said, wow, I should know how to think. You get it? I should know how to think. So he's just slow of heart. They were not thinking well. And Paul had to say that also to Church in Galicia. Galicia 31, all foolish Galicians. But he said, Zephyr, are you so foolish? Now, of course, you know, what happened to them was they were already getting exposed to what he called another gospel. In verse 6 into 7, they were so soon removed from the grace of Christ to another gospel. And that was because, you know, they were getting their minds into different things. So what should have happened in a local assembly where you are consistently exposed to a discipline? So you get a discipline. On Sunday, for example, I taught you how to take notes. And I'm not just going to teach you. I'm going to also check whether you're doing it. Don't be surprised in the middle of the service. You're about to say, let me have your notes. And I looked through your notes. I'm a pastor. I'm not just a speaker. I must ensure that you're doing exactly what I'm teaching you. I pick your notes and check it. Now, based on things like that, you'll be conscious of how you take notes. I told you, oh, was it Sunday now, how I grew up in the boarding house, the hostel. And we had a particular time that we had to wake up. You know, we had a particular time we had to wake up. Even after I left school years after, I used to get up at that time and say, oh, I hope I'm not late, you know. Because that now becomes an attitude. So discipleship delivers to you an attitude where you're able to think. So in part totality, study to show yourself and prove them to God, the word study there is be diligent. He repeats that word in verse 9, be diligent. Be diligent. So there's a diligence that comes because you're well-discipled. So why is it Christians who have no particular attitude about the things of God or whatever attitude they have today is what is trending. You know, why is it a Christian that when everybody is wearing jeans, he's wearing jeans. When everybody is doing bad gang, he's doing bad gang. When everybody is piercing their ears, I don't know whether one is in the north for a second earring. You know, and it's not as to do your culture, you just saw him say, I think this is not fashionable. That kind of person is not being discipled or is being discipled unconsciously by other people. So you have the attitude, it's an attitude that you get by listening and following. I'm going to see something in a moment. So exegesis is a skill that you get that is contagious. You get it. You just go by consistently being in a local assembly where they read the scriptures a lot. There is now a whole lot and they quote the scriptures a lot and they open it a lot. You when you get to a place and maybe you have to go for a fellowship among believers and they don't do that, you feel strange. Because now it's now an attitude. It's now a culture of yours. So that's what discipleship does to you. Mark 16. There is something. Mark 15. Verse 15. He said, Go into all the water and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believes in his baptized shall be saved. He that believes in his not shall be damned. This science shall follow them that believe. In my name, you shall cast out demons. You shall cast out demons. And this science shall follow them that believe. In my name, you shall cast out demons. You shall speak with new tongues. You shall take off supplements. Even if you get a dish and I'll hug them. You shall lay hands with the sick and the ill, the sick shall be covered. So that the Lord has spoken unto them. He was in heaven and sat on the right hand of God. In verse 20 says, they went forth and preached everywhere. They were walking with them. And them, baptized, they were confirming the word with signs following a man. So we do have a responsibility, do not forget, which is also part of this worship. A responsibility to preach the word. For example, I was saying so earlier today. And we're talking, and I said, ever since I got to know what means to praise the Lord. I mean, the praise and the worship of God. I, and you know, before then I was actually a priest worship. So usually I'll get people, you know, dancing. We moved from conservative Christianity to calling you. You. In the U setting, we dance and dance and dance till you sweat. Do break dancing. You don't know break dancing. You know, crazy legs, running man, hammer dance. So we brought that to the service. So I got a hold of the word. And knew what worship was, the clapping and suppressing worship. Now I don't really care how you think about that, that's your business. When I say that, the talking goes word. And then when you do all this, Bratot's calls it, anti-lup something like that. Where those kind of things, it's not wrong to do them, but don't call it worship. That's not what it is. And I got accustomed to that. And if I, is this days that I'm a bit milder. If I'm in a place where everybody's responding to the beats of the music. And they boom, boom, boom. And you know some guys, even before they hear the sound, the song. That's how you know it's not worship. You're about to sing, they're not sang as in the... Ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching. That means they think praise is about them enjoying it. So if the people are gonna talk, they just talk. Ka-ching, ka-ching, ka-ching. Yeah, talking is wrong. Da-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga. Da-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga. Da-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga. Da-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga. Da-ga-ga-ga-ga-ga. Is it really a wedding circumcision? That is not worship. It's not what it is. So you, that again is a discipline in the sign of worship. A discipline. You know you're taught. You're all grounded. Look at 1 Corinthians 14. 1 Corinthians, when the unbeliever comes in, then he, the Jesus of the heart of Mid-Manifest, he says he falls down on his face. That means that's the attitude of the church. It goes on his knees, falls down on his face and reports that of the truth, God is in you. 1 Corinthians 14. There's 24 and 25. Amen. Right. That's what it is. It's culture. Glory to God. It's just what it is. So exegesis is a skill you get. Also here we have Mark 16, going through all the world and preaching the gospel. You also learn that in this afternoon. You're going to be with the gospel. I've been engaged people. You know, someone said, I watched a guy, he's doing a Facebook live. So he put it on my, he sent it to my WhatsApp. He tried to tell me to check it up. He wants to do a conference. So he said, I have to do evangelism. He said the first thing is, this is what he said. He said the first thing is ask your, ask the person whether he wants to have a conversation. Ask him whether I can spare you 20 minutes. So I said, have you done this before? Just theory. Ask your, sir, I want to preach to you. Can you give me 20 minutes? What? You know, he has said no. Those kind of things, there's no one liner. They are different than, dimensions of different people. That, for example, doesn't prepare you for post evangelism. Or, okay, the evangelism. Okay, that's the Greek word for moving chariot. Or you have, that's a motorcycle. And you have, you know, there are different things. But you know, you really don't need anyone to give you methods if you're well trained. You just learn how to get a conversation along with the gospel. That's all. Hallelujah. Because I told you, there's teaching, there's training. Teaching is the information. Training is the activity for the information. Alright, so we have that going toward what? So the goal there is also a skill. You get it by training. Looks good to 24. And 25, we quoted that earlier. Then he said unto them, O fools and slow of how to believe all the prophets have spoken, art not Christ who have suffered these things and to enter into his glory. And most non-prophets, they found them in all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. Again, verse 27, the menu. Interpreting. You are able to interpret. And that interpretation is where you have exegesis. The skill to ask good, intelligent questions in order to interpret what you are reading. Verse 44, these are the words that I spoke to you while I was yet with you, that all things most fulfilled, which were written in the Lord Moses, in the prophets, in the Psalms concerning me. Then you will need the understanding that they may understand the scripture. Now let me show you something about habits. I think it was second service on Sunday. Normally, you know I do Matthew, Mark, John, then Luke, right? Come on. Then on Sunday, I now wanted to get back to the Asian landmark as your father's lady. So I'm going to follow Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. So I did, I was a second service. So I did Matthew, Mark. As soon as I was done with the Luke intro, my mind was used to saying, I'm done with the four gospels. So I never went to John. That is, that's habits. Come on, you. That's what I'm talking about. I never went to John. So the thought started me, I said, ah, I never went to John. Because I knew what I wanted to emphasize in John. So I remember the thought service I said, I never went to this one yesterday. I mean, in the second service. So that's how a habit can be formed. You do it well enough that even when I determined to do it otherwise, because as soon as I was doing, look 24, 45, I just moved to my text. That's what happens with training. You've trained yourself to do that. So John 20. Okay, look 24 first. These are the words we are speaking of. All things were fulfilled, which are the Lord Moses, the prophet and the Psalms concerning me. Then you'll put in the understanding that they might understand the scripture, so near me, which means to read the scriptures together, is also something you get by training. John 20 and 21. John 20 and 21. Then said, Jesus unto them, peace unto you, as my father sent me, was also sent at you. When he said, as you breath unto them, and said unto them, receive ye the holy ghost. We'll serve as sins you will remit, we'll serve as sins you retain, it is their retain. So we say, God gave us a spirit to carry out his own task in the earth. And that's important. And it's part of what I told you to put in mind last week, that God wants, we are His image. Or let's say like this, we are made to act as His image. I prefer that one really. As His image. And this is an image of God. Forgiveness is God's nature. Micah 7.18. 19 says, He cast the sea, the sins to the depths of the sea. Some 103, but 360 forgives all eye iniquities. As for 325, hide the Lord even eye who blots out all your transmissions. So it's the nature of God to forgive. But because we have His Spirit. So the Spirit of God, the inward of the Spirit, is the fullness of the image of God. That is, we have the image of God, the fullness, part of me, of our acting as the image of God. So now quickly, we said, what did the church read? In interpretation, you must read what they read. We said one of the laws is to hear what they heard. If you are going to read the epistles, and understand what is written in the epistles, you must see where they sat. The Bible of Paul's church, this is a bit interesting, you know, much of the churches, for example, if you were in Rome, or Galatia, which are the earlier letters, Galatians are the earlier letters, you are not likely to have read any of the other epistles. It wouldn't even happen, they were not even written at all. So all you would have had were the 39 books. That is what they were reading. So we said, what is the... So we said, there must be a way they interpreted it. Because the only way they could understand the letters Paul now wrote, right, would be in the light of the 39 books. So what is the connection between the 39 books and the epistles? Let me say it again. The church in Corinth didn't read the book of Romans. The church in Rome didn't read Colossians. It's not likely Colossians read the letter to the Ephesians. Maybe, I'm not sure any of them read Apostle Second Timothy. So what is common to all the 27 books of the New Testament? The 39 books of the Old Testament. Are we making sense here? That is what is common. That is what everyone read. You are not sure they all read the epistles, they didn't interread them. The only time we know that Paul made reference to a letter he wrote another church was the Colossians 416. When he says, it calls it the better of churches, and the letter I wrote to the land of Daldesia, you read what I gave them, they read what I gave you. That's the only time you have an idea that maybe another church read what was into a church. But otherwise, everybody read Genesis to Malachi. So we must read what they read. So the instructions and the information in the epistles put this down in capital letters. Were related to the 39 books in Christ, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, glory, born again, born of the Spirit, temple, tabernacle, led, walk, do not obey the instructions. Sing, pray. All those things are acts on words, phrases, expressions, dealing with Genesis to Malachi. So we said, what was used? Now, if you've not been around Mondays and Tuesdays, you miss a lot. We said the codified language is the abbreviation of events. When a book is written to interpret another book, it is not going to quote the book verbatim, wholesale event. It will refer to it in a codified manner. It will shorten the stories into sentences. Remember the pilot text? Remember pilot text? Remember pilot text? It will use pilot text. It will use codified language. Then we said on Tuesday that to now teach your own people, because we are not the immediate audience, how do we relate with the book not written to us? We use the identification unifiers. How do we use a book? We found that the adepto unifier was used by a lot of interpreters of the Lord Moses. We use the identification unifiers. We use that to read it. So the church, passed out by Paul, they referred to the scriptures of Genesis to Malachi, 2 Timothy 3, 15 and 16. That was what they read. Romans 1, 2 and 3, that's what they read. Romans 1, 1 and 2, pardon me. That's what they read. So let's keep a few things we've already explained. And let's go to what was their attitude to the Old Testament books. We said they read it as tuples, right? Motifs. Come on, they detected motifs. Now let's see something else now. Now look at Hebrews 6 and 12. What about personalities? Hebrews 6 and 12. Where personalities of the Old Testament, we're looking at the walk and walk of the Spirit and the Earth, where personalities in the Old Testament, well look at a Christian conduct, that's what we're focused on. Where personalities is important. Where personalities is important in the theology. Hebrews 6 and 12. That you be no slothful, but follow us on who? Them. Who grew faith and patience in heredity promises? Now you don't, you can't misunderstand what he's saying. He says, for God, for when God made promise to Abraham, so is Abraham part of the them? Yeah. He says, so which means that Old Testament characters, where they use as examples. Very good. Follow them. The one here is mimites. M-I-N-E-T-S. Mimites. Now in Hebrews 4, did I say Hebrews 4? First Corinthians 4. Paul used that for himself. You know very well that we have studied how to be, how not to be like Old Testament folks. We've done a bit of it, right? I'm going to expand it more for you on Sunday. How not to be like them. So it's going to take carefulness. Carefulness. Now before he's asking, he said, I like the old nature of fire come. So first Corinthians 4 and 16. Wherefore, this is Paul, I beseech you, be ye followers of me. Mimites. That's me. First Corinthians 11-1, be ye followers of me as I'm of Christ. So we found out that God uses men, right, as models. Look at Ephesians 5 and 1. Be ye followers of God as their children. In the same word, they imitate us, imitate God. The Apostles of the Loniens 1-6. You became followers of us and of the Lord. Have you received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost? 1 Peter 3-13. So 1 Peter 3-13. Who is he that will harm you? If you be followers of that, which is good. Now why does he say followers of that, which is good? Chapter 3 again. Likewise ye wives, be in subjection to your husbands, your own husbands. That's important, your own husbands. I like to always say that. You don't go around giving other people's wives instructions. You know, above the Higgins there is a story, a fellow who said, ah, ah, the man is the head of a woman and wanted to instruct his wife. He said, if you don't stop that, someone's going to lose his head right here. That if any man, if any woman of the world, they also may be without the word. Be warned by the commercial wives. While they beheld your cheers conversation, couple of fair, who's a donning, let it not be the outward adorning or the prism of air, or word of gold or prism of aparyl, that means that's not the focus of a believer. Let it not be the eating round the heart, which is not corruptible, or the animal, omelette, be made quiet and spirit, which is the side of God at a great price. Now look at 5. After this manna in the old time, the holy women, cause of holy women, right? Saints, again, yeah? Also, who trusted in God? Believers? Are they in the church? Very good. So just like Paul, are done themselves being in subjection to their own husband, which means attitude is meant to be our gametes. They wore a gametes of subjection to their husband. He mentions, even a seerah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, whose daughters you are. Calling him Lord. He says, you obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord. Now before I get in there, I'm going to just skip that, go to verse 7. Likewise you husbands. The interesting part, he doesn't mention Abraham, he just says you husbands. Dwell with them according to knowledge. The word there is sunoikio, S-U-N-O-I-K-U, that's the closest word for wedlock in scripture. And it means domestic association also includes sexual intercourse. Now this is very important because it says you dwell according to gnosis, okay? Which means that God gives liberty for a couple to develop their own experiences according to gnosis. Gnosis there is an experiential knowledge. So which means couples are meant to discover one another. God himself knows it takes a while. He himself says, the heart of man, no man can know it. So he says you have to pay attention to gnosis. Alright, and this is both interactive, sexual. Which means the sexual interaction of couples should be confidential, mutual, mutually learned. Alright, that's the word dwell there is a sunoikio. It has to do with a domestic association that's quite, quite very intimate and confidential. So he says according to gnosis, in other words, is ruling out using culture. By saying, no, you find our works, that's the point. Using culture. He says giving honor to the wife, that's counter culture, to honor your wife. And I've been teaching you that for years, you honor your wife. As on the wicket vessel, not talking about physical makeup, so we horsemen should know that by now. But as being hairs together of the grace of life, hairs together. That's honor. Honor means you see your wife in Christ Jesus. Not according to the culture. Okay, you know that according to culture. Now culture can be good if culture is subjected to God's word. Just like post-coronavirus is 11, the use of COVID on head and all that. So it can be good. Alright? And you know one of the things you must not put in theology is say your wife is your health mate. Your wife is not your health mate. Stop getting into trouble. Amen? She's not your health mate. She's hairs together of the grace of life. She's hairs together of the grace of life. First Peter 3,7. What else is she? She is flesh and bone with you with Christ. Ephesians 5,30 and 31. Genesis 2,22 and 23. Which means she is a reed in the house of God. Selah, T-S-E-L-A. That's how you see her. She's a priest, right? Genesis 2,15, right? Come on, of God's presence. Alright? So you have a domestic relationship. That is intimate, confidential, sexual. Yet you must give honor. So the wife will obey the husband. The husband will honor. Just like the pastor. The pastor is also meant to be obeyed. He's meant to be honored. He's meant to be loyal to the pastor. But the pastor has a greater responsibility. He also has to be... The pastor doesn't obey you. But he must honor you and treat you through the eyes of Christ. He must misuse you. He must abuse you. Not like calling man you devils. That's part of... That's nothing to do with the will of God. That is the will of God. You don't like that. It's bad. So he must honor you. You see you in Christ. We loyal to you. Part of his job. So there's a consequent responsibility of the man to honor. Honor. Now, go back to verse 6. Sarah obeyed. Now look at the things that Sarah did. She obeyed... Abraham. She called him Arne. Darling. Baby. No, not wrong in that. But Lord. He meant... Curious. Lord. Like that part. See that's pizza. Let's look at Paul. No, he says that crashes the head of a church. Paul said the same thing. Lord, curious. But are you as long as you do well and are not afraid with any men? So he said you do the right thing. What daughters they actually... I don't know what to use. It's what technology means. Child really. Who's children you are. To obey, to call Lord. I'm not saying it's wrong to call nicknames. I'm not saying that. The word called Lord there is not... It's not like a name. It's respect and honor. That you have. You know, in his bablik or sometimes you have couples who use the Yoruba language as this strange collective noun. That you call a man. So when I was trying to speak Yoruba as a young boy. Because in Yoruba when you talk about your dad, you didn't see... When you talk about your brother and you want to refer to your brother, you say, Oh, Salkwe, that's singular. Then I want to call it as a Oh, Salkwe, the kind of knock you get in your head. The red sea will be deeper. You know, so you say, air is supposed to be collective noun. Air, Salkwe. So now the truth is, what else does he say that in Niki's house? I always say, they said. Now, I started to say that sometimes in... You see, mild couples use that collective... No, these guys are not... This is bondage. This is bondage. What kind of... It's not right. Relationships should be free. You know, did you see their age difference? No, I just wanted to ask you. You know, really, really, I mean, age difference is wide. But that was not even the point. I really can't act like I'm fine. They say, Oh... You say, No, they don't worry. Only come here and eat anything. Even your mouth will be empty. Let's leave that alone. I don't want to go to hell. But the point is, I mean, it looks apart, we find in her something to emulate. Right? So that means that when Paul is talking about wives, submit to your husband, who would he explain? Sarah. That means these are the models of believers' life, conduct. So Paul will say, Right, submit to your husband, like this person I was watching on YouTube. No? Husbands, love your wives. Like this guy, I saw him on Oprah Winfrey show. No. What were they reading? Genesis 2, Palakka. So that's important. Look at Romans 4. Learning something? Now, of course, the areas we won't ask you to follow, Sarah. We'll see all of that as we follow. Romans 4. I'll read to you verse 12. And part of circumcision to them, which are not of circumcision only, but also walk in the steps, which is single step, actually, of the faith of the Father Abraham. He says, walk in the step. Abraham is called faithful because God calls him faithful. Now, usually we have just Genesis 15-6, where God referred to that as the Sedecha, righteousness. But actually, we also have Genesis 18. Genesis 18. And verse 18. See that Abraham shall surely become a great imagination. And all this will be ushered in blessing him. Yes, 1819, let's say, 1819 together. Let's take it together. For I know him. Are you there? Come on, are you there? I know him that he will command his children and is also without him. Now, that word command is not given instruction. It will be exemplary. So his children are also without him. He shall keep the way of the Lord to do what? Justice and judgment. So God talks about the way of God, the way of the judgment there, is Sedecha as a righteousness. So righteousness is found in Abraham in believing. Okay? Then it's also found in his walk. James 2. Any chance? James 2, find, write up, James also does the same. Verse 21. He's talking about, you know, service, walks. If a brother or sister of his, still be making a list of daily food, one of you should say to him, depart in peace, be you warm and filled, I declare and decree. You know, that's what he's saying there. Obviously, you give him not those things which are needful to the body, what does it profit? It will so faith if that not walks, is there being alone? Now look at the example he gives. Verse 21. It was not Abraham and father justified by walks, when he offered Isaac his son upon the altar. Seeing that our faith wrote with his walks, his walks was with faith made perfect. Verse 23. And the scripture was fulfilled saying Abraham believed God, is imputed to him for righteousness, and he was called, that's the biblical 27, the friend of God. Then he used Rahab as well, who believed in 25, and also received the messengers. All right? And that sent them out another way. So we do have the concept of examples. This is an example of worship, service. James again, James 5. James 5 says in verse 10, all right? That's really together in 2.11. Are you there? Let's go. Take my brethren, the prophets, who are spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering and affliction and of patience. 11. Behold, we count them happy which endure. You have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the hand of the Lord, and the Lord is beautiful and of tenement. So we find in Job also patience. Very much historic, but it's something to emulate, Christian conduct, patience. Now one more. In Romans 15, we see Christ emulating somebody else in Scripture, with them that are strong, hard to bear defense of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Every one of us pleases the labor of gentrification, good to education. For even Christ, please not himself, as it is written, the reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me. That is, I bore the brunt of those who reproached thee. Psalm 69. Psalm 69, and verse 9. Now, Jesus emulated this that was found in David. So go back to 1 Peter 3. Just wrap that part up. 1 Peter 3. I'm going to read 13, the one we read earlier. And who is he that will harm you, if you be followers of that which is good? Now, excuse me. In 1 Peter 3, and we read something that is good. Yeah. Verse 6. As long as you do well, and are not afraid with amazement. So what is good there is Sarah's conduct towards Abraham, a subjection, submission, calling him Lord, and obedience. So we are followers of that which is good. Hebrews 6.12. Follow them who through faith and patience inherit the promises. So as a church, as they're talking about the fruit of the spirit, no one will ever say that the word fruit is because of the use of land. Remember? The land, the kapos, the erets, and then the fruit of it, which is the xera. So you have all that together, and that's what they're using in their epistles. So the fruit of the land, all right, and do not forget, let me say this quickly, quickly. Look up. This is important. You don't get it wrong. The fruit of the land, the land of the Old Testament, is the work of the spirit where? In the earth? In man and where? In the earth. So which means good conduct is the original atmosphere of the earth. Godly conduct is the original atmosphere of the earth. What we're doing, right, in our conduct is not to end points, to live in another place. No. It's actually, as I'm going to show you in a moment, is to purify God's dwelling place, which is where? There. That's what we're doing. So our good conduct is actually worship. That's what it is. It is worship. We are not ending points for another place. No. We are building right here in the earth. Are you in church? Let's go back to Genesis 13. See a contrast. All right, now look at Genesis 13. Now you know the story now. You have Abraham in Genesis 12, two with him, Lord, his brother, son, in five. And after a while, because Lot also had much. You had flock in verse five, Genesis 13. So the land verse six was not able to bear them, you know that. So things came up. And lots of staff were fighting. Abraham's staff, for seven days, there was a strife between the earth men. And the Carolina and the Berger were there in the land. Now there was strife. This is the first word strife in the whole Bible. The word Meriba. Now is strife a major caution in the epistles? So whenever they are speaking, which texts are they reading? This. Of course, majorly also you see it in the Exodus. All right, the word Meriba. So the first thing about strife, it is forbidding amongst who? Brothers. I remember my friends, when I studied law, before I got to school, they would sit down with me and say, there's one part of it you cannot walk in the Spirit about. I said, what? You went to school to study strife. So there was a guy that went to school to go and learn how to stride. So I talked to the explaining to him, he said, no, no, no, no. You are a contender. Don't mind them. They're ignorant guys. So you have been, Abraham said to lots, let there be no Meriba. I pray between me and thee, between my headsmen, are your headsmen, for we be brethren. This is the doctrine and the caution in the church. We are brethren. Now, did you notice what he elevated? He elevated brotherhood above professionalism. Come on. Above commercial value. Come on. Above societal and cultural demands. I can tell you this free, it's tough. Do you know this is not easy? I tell you guys, not born again. Look at me now. Do they have the Spirit? What do they have? I know the thing that he brought the guy. You know the guy just did freedom for him. You know freedom. And the guy said, no, no, no. And I'm sure that his staff have told him, Charmander, let's change them out of this town. Charmander, I know where he's actually in Lot. You know, sometimes you say, do we outjeem it? Outjeem. He just smiled. Say Lot's come. See what he called them, we are brothers. Is his brother a son? He just said Lot's. Lot's. See because your name is Lot's. Let there be no Meriba. Now Meriba is taken from bitterness. People that are bitter often don't know they are bitter. Say, I'm not bitter. I say, would I say, please say, no, no. Last time I will have, I'm not bitter. Honestly, when you talk to us these things. I'm not bitter at all. I just decided. You're not bitter but you decided. I'm not bitter at all. I'm not even angry. I won't pray for him this morning. He thanks. You know, in tongues. You say, I pray for him. Did you pray at that time? He did it. You know, he used it to preach it. You just have to stop praying, walking off. He said, it's not the old land we bought. You say, put yourself. I pray for me. Take the left one. I'll go the right. I'll go the left. Bro lots. Bro lots of uncle. It's not like that. Are you sure? Are you sure to say this? Uncle, uncle. He looked at it. Or I will. I just think this here. Go is not too far from where I walk. The one that has gases. No, he's there now. He said, if the plane of Jordan, it was well watered. He saw it. He had done it. He had done it for me. They had done it for him business analysis. That's the right thing to do. Since he has given you, you actually deserve it. Uncle, that's it. But look how I say, we are bretters. Now notice the key thing here. What I'm in Genesis 4 is a counter narrative actually. In Genesis 4, okay, let's hold a bit on that. I don't know how I arrange my notes. Genesis 4, we find the same word, arch, which is for bread and bread. Genesis 4, where the Lord actually asks. Give me a minute. Oh, I'll get to that. Let's hold on. So we have that one, Meriba, in Numbers 27, 14. The interesting thing about it is that strife is a sin against God. It doesn't look like that because you argue with your brother, but it's a sin against God. It's what it is. You see some in Numbers 27 and 14. You rebelled against my commandments in the desert of Zin in the strife of the congregation. So the strife happened in the congregation, but it was against the Lord. The waters of Meriba and Kadesh. It's the very 32 verse 51. The trespass against me, amongst, you have a visual, that is done amongst people, but it's against the Lord. At the waters of Meriba. That is, it's done with people, but it's against the Lord. And that word is also used for provocation. Psalm 95, verse 8. Had not your heart is a deal of provocation, Meriba. Psalm 106 verse 32. So it's consistent. So strife is in Genesis motif, in Exodus, in the Exodus, of course. Now it's taken from another Hebrew word, read, R-I-B. So let's see the Genesis of it. Genesis 26 and 20. And the advertisement of Gerard did strive with Isaac Edmund. That's a consistent. Verse 21, the strove. Verse 22, the strove. So Genesis 31 and 36. Jacob was wroth and showed with Laban. The word showed that he took it quarrelled. Exodus 17 and verse 2. Why chide me? What chide there is to quarrel? Exodus 21 and 18 is to quarrel. Verse 21 and verse 20 and verse 3 and 13. People quarrelled with Moses. Then verse 13, the strove is loaded to quarrel. The strove at the bottom of the river. So you have to quarrel. So strife starts with quarrels, arguments. So you and I show watch out, arguments, quarrels. It leads to strife. So what did Abraham say? Genesis 13 and verse 8, he says we be brethren. Arch, A-C-H. It's a contrast of what happened between Cain and Abel. Genesis 4-2, she bore again his brother Arch Abel. Genesis 4-8, he talked with his brother. Look at Genesis 4-9, am I my brother's keeper? So the exact opposite. Of course look at the background of the murder. Verse 6, his countenance is falling. Verse 5, his wrath. And that wrath, anger, is the background of that word weep, R-I-B. To be angry, then strife. Now we can have conversations where we disagree. I think it should be this. But the moment it starts getting into my feelings. Then I have it feeling of I should be right, you should be wrong. I am sliding into the flesh. And I am thinking and I start feeling like a sense of superiority. And I am feeling, ah, why should you be, and I told someone there I said, are the root of anger is right, arrogance. You think that you are better than the person. You think there is something you have, there is nothing else, you have to check it. So there is the countenance fell. So you watch your heart. When I put this out, the other day I said it in church. Before I put it on Facebook, I said, watch how you react. When, for example, if a pastor, a younger pastor, or even your, like your colleague, the church is growing, and you are doing well, in the natural, you can see them, then in your mind you are wondering what are they even doing. Watch how you appreciate others. You see, that's how to judge yourself. So I say, maybe they are preaching for the doctrine. Maybe it's because they are not, maybe it's because if you are teaching the world, people will not come like that. Blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And you are just saying, why are you saying that? Because you saw people that you also want. That's the reason. You see somebody and the person is your colleague of yours. And you know, you just bought a car, bought a house. You say, this is what I have heard this. I now laugh. And I saw someone. You know, brethren are very interesting. I saw someone say to another brother, say, I've known him for years, and the guy has known me really. He said, I've known him. He said, when his father died, that, I'm quoting what he said. He's a preacher. He says, his father left him about 10 houses. That one of the houses was abroad. That the house is living right now. That his father first stayed there. I'm not talking. I say, ah. Say, yes, that is, that is, for what I got out of my Facebook. He said, Pastor Chris is just preaching that preachers should walk now. When his chambers, you know, I know his chambers. His chambers, it was my wall. He said, there are many hundreds of millions. You know, I know nobody's chambers. Now you see that money. You know, I say, preachers should walk. I read it. I've seen people tell me my story. Thank you. I'll take note of what you're saying. Because I didn't know. Many people, you know, just get up and say, I know how you do it. Someone said, I thought you were going to say, they buried somebody there. I don't want guys to say that, guys, because he used someone to make money. I hear somebody there, he's walking, doesn't make money. He's the now you see for the, I want to buy you. You think a church is growing because you go and start it. Let's see whether it will grow. Put yourself there and bury yourself there. Every will destroy you. You see, you listen to what I hear. Because you left school together and you were the class captain. Oh, I mean, that's not a nice maker. That's not a nice maker. There was one guy, I took out his school. Very bad guy. Very, very bad guy. And the way he rose in his career is very interesting. If I won't forget one, this sister, where she was his sister. I used to look at her because, you know, in Ibaraki, we say that somebody, when somebody has marks, you see, very half his facial marks. I used to look down on her like she just went to their broth. When she came back, even a Christian, I was very different. If I won't forget one, I'm going to say, how are you ma? I don't know. That's how nobody said no. That is sure that she went to do prostitution. I say, ah, ah. You saw him tell some stories. Ah, ah. The way you have described it, like you were there. You know, I wasn't there, but I was told, ah, ah. And he described it like this. Ah, ah. I said, no. Learn to believe the best. Don't think people will do bad things. I know you are strong. You know they're strong, they're strong. They don't blame anybody. They don't celebrate people. Do you understand? Celebrate will now do. Ah, ah, ah. Ah, ah. He got a legend award for, a great scholar of all times. Some of these messy, less people. Ah, ah. Then right there, he's because of his ah, ah. Ah, ah. Eh, man. Ah, what the hell, what the hell is that, man? Ah, ah. I really don't care. But you get my point. The two things your friend was promoted. Don't say she must have been. Let me read the MD. I remember one lecturer like that. You know, in my second, in my university. He said, you know, I would say these two is not good for you. He said, how can you just be, she must have been, why? You die, you, what do you, what is your performance? Idiot. And you want him to promote you. You know, don't have such things. How you know it, you are just uncomfortable. That somebody is doing well. Don't be like that, you too like it now. A church is growing, you are feeling bad. They are not growing, you are feeling bad. What do you want? Ah, ah. What exactly do you want? Hallelujah. There are no root of bitterness. Not in my heart. I celebrate people. I rejoice with them. Do you understand? You know, that's how it is. This is with an exception. Chelsea. You like, whatever you like. You see, Chelsea is like exception. So you have to learn to do that. When you begin to see, what's your, what's your manner, your heart, when others progress? And you show, you say, no. In Jesus' name, no, no, no. This is alien to our common well. This alien to God's land. This is not the fruit of this land. This should not be in this land. Are you there? Genesis 13. God now said to him again, in verse, Genesis 13, that Abraham, and verse 17, arrives. He says, walk through the land in the length of it, in the breadth of it, I'll give it to you. Now, we said that it's not that Abraham was going around the portion of land. This is an envision. Walk. So walking through the land, is that walking in the spirit? Exactly. Walk through the land. I will give it to you. The word, alak, to walk with God. Something Noah did. Genesis 6, 9. And also we found in Enoch, Genesis 5, 22, and 24, to walk with God. Now, don't forget the background we gave you the other week, that God is the one who walks, is a tabernacle language. Remember that? Genesis 3, 8, Leviticus 26 verse 12. It's a Rebit 23 and 14, so Corinthians 6, 16. That's God walking. Genesis 3, 8, Leviticus 26 verse 12, Rebit 23, 24, and of course, 7 Corinthians 6, 16. God is one walking. So when he says, arise, walk, it simply means, this is my tabernacle. Now, act like me. So our walk is a response to his walk. Our conduct is a response to his nature. He has given us his spirit in the new bath. And that same word, arise, is Isaiah 61. Arise and shine, for the light has come. And look, there are rise and shine. Isaiah 60, it goes about the land. And it's the same light of Genesis 1, 2, to 4. So the same thing, arise and shine, arise and walk in the land, arise, walk in the spirit, arise, walk in the temple of God, in the same structure. So we have examples to follow. Stripe, bitterness, we are brethren. Let's bring that even to the family, the domestic relationship. Siblings, natural siblings, husband and wife, how you are staying together, you can lose sight that you are brethren in Christ. It all begins to, you know, if there's anything you should do to your children, let them see brotherly love with couple love. One of your couple goals, right? So if you want, what about to get married or who are married or who are marrying? One of your couple goals should be, we will relate like brothers and sisters in Christ. Let that be a goal in itself. Not couple goals, you find yourself on Mount Himalaya. That doesn't bring anything. Do you understand? It's character that sustains marriage, not holiday, not pictures. So who would die if there are no cameras again in this world? They would just die. You mean I can't take pictures? They would just die. Hey, take this. Their whole life is on cameras. Because they are living for the world. It's what blues will see them. Do you get it? You know, I was telling someone like that who was planning on marriage and I said, you know, you can make this brief say yes. I just want you to know that the couple would not think that we are poor. Okay, what if they think you are rich? Does that make you rich? He said no. Are you rich? He said no. I said, you just become really... I said don't leave your life alone with them. We think you are poor. So I said, if you keep going on, people will think that you have problems. Because they have problems. Do you understand? You only live that way. Please God, amen. So as a couple, you have those girls, be brethren, alright? We have examples not to follow equally. Hebrews 4.11 says of unbelief, so do not save them. 1st Corinthians 10.6.11 says, not to lose other things that are lost after. We have Cain, Jude 11, don't follow Cain. Esau, Hebrews 12, don't follow Esau. Balaam, Jude 11. Balaam is a prophet or a man who did things for money. Cain, obviously, had hatred. He saw. He saw was a man who was in dishonor for spiritual things. So whenever you see the epistles, you also use codified language for conduct, right? So within the, for the instruction of our conduct, we have personalities there, right? Come on, are you following this? You have to read the story that explains this. So in Psalm 3.16, it says, all scripture is given by the instruction of God, is profitable for doctrine, for reproof. That what reproof means to provide evidence. So as they are teaching, like I said on Sunday, when I read stories in media, somebody stole 100 billion, somebody did this one. Someone did this. I'll say that it's not simple. It's not like you are negative. You can just say, let's see the evidence now. Let's see the evidence. No, what evidence do you need? What evidence do you need? They said he bought a house. He bought a house. Is he having a problem? They said, let's see the evidence. By then, you know this cover. They now show you that the receipt of the house was dated four years before they contract their evidence. Now I say, aloh ya. You know people are like that. This is what you need to explain this. That's why sometimes people are making a lot of noise in the media. When they get to the courtroom, after speaking for, they'll be immediately allowed to speak for days in the courtroom. They'll have three sentences. I don't know about people when they say, he did this, he did that. I call the police and they'll sit down. He said, we are saying what you say. Well, it has left my mind. I don't know how to say that. I don't know how to say that. Solomon said, every story sounds true. He had the other side and said the real cause is true. Solomon said that he's the person that goes to the law that is forced to justify it. He called the other person and said, what you said, that's what I felt. So as they are teaching the same way, they will provide evidence. The evidence are in the stories or scripture. So the word, elect shows, means to provide evidence. Hebrews 11.1, faith is the substance of things that are formed. That word, evidence is the same word, elect shows. It means to expose, to shed light. So every concept, so the Old Testament, shed light. Are you there? On the New Testament. The Old Testament stories shed light. So we have to learn how to use the stories in motifs, in the codified language, to unify the words. We have to learn how to use the stories. The story that you are listening to me is a skill. You don't just pick it up and say, very well, let's copy a brah, and then take your son, I will look for a mountain. You will be an idiot. So it's a skill. Listen. The stories are the stories of redemption. The stories of the church, the stories of believers. For example, if you are talking about pastoring, you have to read Moses. Because the word pastor is the word poimene. Poimene is shepherd. That's what it is, shepherd. And shepherd is Hebrew word ra. The first person called a shepherd was Abel. Then of course we'll see in Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses. But precisely, it's in Moses that he's called shepherd over people. Then all the kings were also called shepherd. In Psalm 78 verse 72, David is called a shepherd. Psalm 78 and 72, he fed them according to the integrity of his heart and guided them by the skillfulness of his hands. Because in verse 71, following the east with great young, he brought them to feed Jacob his people and Israel his inheritance. So when you hear pastor, shepherd, feed the flock. See where it got him from. Can you see it? Take care of the flock. It's the way David took care of the nation. So that's a pastor's office. We see in Moses a pastor's office. So when they are teaching people to shepherd, to disciple, these are the stories that they will use. Jeremiah, are you learning something? 315, I will give you pastors. That's what the shepherds, according to my heart, that will feed you with no understanding. Jeremiah 315. Jeremiah 23 and 4. I will set up shepherds over them. We shall feed them. So when you hear feed the flock, feed the flock. There's a rule where these are the instructions of the stories. When you look at Moses, that's why a pastor will learn from Moses. When people are going to strive, if a pastor is not careful, they will transfer it to you. Before you know it, you will just get angry. You learn from Joshua. That's how to understand the pastor's office. You know how we divided the responsibilities from the... Cancel the growth from Jethro. That's your learning pastoring. That is where the story is. If you follow what I'm saying here, this is making sense to you. The kings were pastors. Ezekiel 34. Just the whole of Ezekiel 34. That's about 23 or so. I'll set up shepherds over them. That's what I'm talking about, Jesus. Now, I shall feed them. Even my seven-day beef shall feed them. I shall feed their shepherd. We are shepherds. So that's where we are called... He's called the great shepherd of the sheep. All right? He's called the chief shepherd. 1 Peter 5.4. He's called the chief shepherd. When shall I pay? That's the akh bishop, really. That's akh bishop. Chief shepherd. Okay? He's the chief shepherd of the sheep. This is where he's taking from. So I like... A friend of mine, Larry Amos, did in 1996 or so. He thought... The series was... The sheep... No. The chief shepherd, the under shepherd. And it's a very lovely teaching. A very lovely teaching about we are under shepherds, under Jesus. And he, the sheep, is his. So he has delegated that responsibility. Just like God is the shepherd of Israel. Some 80 first one. But Moses also, they are shepherd. So they relate with God through Moses. God relates with them through Moses. Now, this is that. That doesn't mean they don't have a personal relationship. That's not what it means. It means that... Like we are imaging God today. That image is through the ministry gifts. That means that the pastor must love the flock. Like God loves the flock. And the flock must revert the pastor. As they will do unto the Lord. Do you understand that? That's how it is done. So... So what we talk about walking in this field. Just like evangelists. Evangelists is basar, right? Come on. God, kind of the kingdom. Prophets is a Lord's testament. The daschalos teacher and all. That as a shepherd. So the walk in the spirit. What does it mean? The walk of the spirit in the head. We said it is for the earth. The spirit walk through us. Pay attention to this. It's not for us who got people born again. You know we have that song. He gave you a very... As I step into your whatever. Unless you plan for everyone. You say you're a spirit walk God. He has constant men to worship you. That is not just getting born again. Do you understand? Constant men to worship. That's the whole life of man. Every tribe and town declaring you. You gave your birth. That we might reach the world. So we're reaching the world. So that they become world worshipers. And our region in the world is also worship. So the spirit just like Genesis 1 2. Is in the earth. To recreate the earth. And we have said that Genesis is God's method right. To renew things. To renew things. So the spirit walk. Pay attention. The spirit walk is rest. I would say rest is what? Order in the midst of what? Chaos. The rest place of God in the earth. God rest in order. Genesis 2 1 2 3. We'll see all that again next week. The Sabbath. And we have said the Sabbath. Eventually relates with the rest place of God. The Noah Komenuka. So when he gave the 10 commandments. I'm going to show you something quickly. We said there are 10 words. Remember that. Exodus 20. Let me show you something. Close on that. The idea we have is that you know. Let's just make sure we get to heaven. And when we get to heaven. And then this earth is just destroyed. When it's destroyed. The world just come. And they all happen. God's new heaven and earth. Is what you are looking at. It is by his word. And by his gospel. He's renewing the earth. Putting it in the right shape. Is building his temple. And so our conduct matters. What we do matters. What we do is a continuation of the work of the spirit. That begun with the seal of the spirit. So again in Exodus 20. Look at the background of it. Verse 1 to 2. Verse 1 says all these words. God spoke all these words. Dabah. I am the Lord like God which brought the out. Of the land of Egypt. Out of the house of bondage. So like we mentioned the other day. The commandments are not for salvation. They are for the earth. Is that very clear? Is that very clear? They are not for... They are ready to be rescued. It didn't give them commandments to keep before he rescued them. No. It didn't give them commandments to keep so that we don't do the whole rescue them. No, no, no, no. The commandments came because like he said. He said let my son go. He said to my son and his father. Let my son go that he may serve me. Exodus 4.22 and 23. That he may serve me. So these commandments are for the service of God. They are for the worship of God. So that is why the baseline of it. You will have no other gods. That's the baseline. Which means in the earth. In the system of this world. I am loyal to just Yahweh. I'm not loyal to the God of commerce. The God of entertainment. Are you there? I'm not loyal to the God of technology. I'm not loyal to the God of soccer. Put that capital letter. I'm not loyal to the God of the old earth. So based on that. You know I said to them. They remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. And we said what is the Sabbath day? The one day is not a Sunday. The Sabbath day is supposed to be a period. Right? Now oftentimes when you have Zaka. Look at this now. Let me just mention this. When you have the word Zaka used. I know we thought this one before. I'm not going back. Zaka is oftentimes not about something that has happened. But something that should happen. He remembered Sira. What did he remember? That Sira should have in turn. He remembered Noah. He remembered Israel. So it's about to come and rescue them. So when he says remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. The Sabbath day is a project. Who's following what I'm saying here? Are you following this? Genesis 2, 1, 2, 3 is a project. The old earth is full. And God entered into what? Into what? His rest place. So remember it to keep it holy. Since we know his project plan for the earth. We keep that holy. That project is separate. That's what holy. Qadash or Qadosh is separate. It's treated differently especially. Whenever the kingdom of this world comes against us. Whenever we say this world. We say no, no, no. We have a Sabbath day. We have a project. We have a plan. I told you that the other day. I said what is the Bible? The Bible is God's plan for the world. How we know what he wants to do with the world. And we are in that project. Hallelujah. Remember the Sabbath. There's something ahead to keep it holy. So the seventh is the conclusion. So why they use physical days was again. What you can call a symbol. But the seventh is the conclusion. This is the conclusion. Right? This is the conclusion. We are walking towards a conclusion. Where God enters his rest place. Some 1.32, verse 8, some 95, verse 11, and just is the sixth verse 1. So all that is his rest place. Where you have Munneh and Menuh, John 14. Those are just nice. His temple. A temple, the abjure of God in the earth. That's what he's saying. Remember it. To keep it holy. Now, I'll just speak on one thing quickly because of time. Then he says in verse, now the first thing he says, and we wrote this in our book on honor. The first instruction he gives was honor. The first instruction was honor. Where you have the word kabad. Treat heavy. Honor thy father and mother. Now this is very heavy because in their culture they don't do anything about mothers. Honor your father and mother. Honor. So the first and fourth says it is the first commandment with promise. The first, I'll tell you later why it's called the first. I thought you'd share 10 words. First commandment with promise. Because the only reason why you can do verse 12 is in the earlier instructions which is actually summarized. Have been believed. You have no other God. You don't watch many other God. Now the first instruction to that believer is to honor. Now that's what he says. That your days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveeth thee. I've seen people use this for long life and they are extremely wrong. Are you out of your smarts? Many times scripture doesn't give you the number yes. No. I said no, no, you want to live long. I know that. There are lots of people who are very wicked. 120 years. Jesus, 33. Paul barely in his 60s. So that is a wrong teaching to think that way. That's not what he's talking about. Now notice he's saying in the land. The moment you see the word land, then your narrative changes in you. As you follow what I'm saying here. In the land. So it's about a promise that your days may be long. In the land. Now is that land also the Sabbath? Come on. Good. In the land. Now Paul references, this is critical, in Ephesians 6. I've told people many times that long life is not predicated upon those following spiritual instructions. A lot of people live long is common sense. Hello, common sense. Amen. So you have some people that will stress spiritual instruction and die. So this is not about long life, yes. Everybody wants to stay around. Give me the word and give me Jesus. I will take the word and give me Jesus. That will come from your heart. All that father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise. Now look at what Paul now said. That it may be well with thee. That thou mayest live long where? On the earth. Now, that you may live long on the earth. So now I'm telling you, this is self-projects. Okay. So we have to look at the earth that I'm referring to. So let me show you something quickly. Now this is also Colossians 320, just for Ephesus. Colossians 320. It says for it is well pleasing in unto the Lord. That's all it says here. It is well pleasing unto the Lord. Doesn't add the text. That we just read. Leviticus 19 verse 3. Leviticus 19 verse 3. Learning something? You shall fear every man, his mother and father, and keep my Sabbath. I am the Lord your God. You see, we're going to the Sabbath. I am the Lord your God. This is verse 27. I'm verse 16. Cost be he that sets light by his father or his mother, and all that he aimeth was cost again. All right, good. To be exercised away from God's purpose and plan. Now, so let's do 11. So you understand what he has been saying all along. So that man is secret of his eyes. So he's obeying his prayers. So he's not his prayers. So you start packing money and giving to your prayers, which you should do normally. What you are doing because of selfish reasons. So you just sent me one million. Anybody? Ah, mommy. And she has said she's never been doing it before. I say, my doctor told me I'm not feeling fine. I go, what am I supposed to do? My mother. My mother. Sweet mother. I know I forgot you. That's not the worship of God. I forgot what I'm saying. So you're going to be 11. The moment you forget it, you're not worshiping God. I'll give you the reign of your land in its duties in the first few later in the damn God that I call the wine and the oil. So go to verse 21. I'll start from 20. Start from 19. You shall teach them, your children, speaking of them, when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up. And I shall write them upon the doorpost of their house and upon your gaze for your days may be multiplied. Look at that. The days may be multiplied and the days of your children in the light which the Lord swore to your fathers to give them as the days of heaven upon their... That's Genesis 2. The days of heaven upon the earth. So what does it mean by the days being to launch? That what there's young in the Hebrew. It means the light of God, right? Spreading in the earth. So God's reign upon the earth is the days of heaven upon the earth. This is eternal life, the life of the Messiah. So when we honor, we are prolonging whose days to stay. That's what we're doing. That is the kingdom of God in the earth. It's not about... And it's like you are leaving a legacy. So that is what good conduct is in the earth. It's not to win a prize. No. It's worship. The worship of God is I'm seeing God in what I'm doing. He's honored. When I... When I stay free from lust and I stay free from greed, sexuality, morality, I stay free from strife, I stay free from... What am I doing? I am honoring God. It is for His honor. His honor here on earth. Say, let your light so shine. Amen. May you see your good works and glorify your Father. That is in the earth. And this is the essence of good conduct. We're going to explore this the more. So Ephesians 6, I'll close here. I'm going to study something. So there must not be anything selfish about good conduct. Are you there? Because you don't say that some people do it so that they can be seen of men. Say, for you, let be seen by who? Your heavenly Father. To be seen of men. Ephesians 6 and 2. That thou mayest live long on the earth. Use the word macrochronous. And chronous is usually an odd that time. We see all that next week. That's what we're doing. We are imaging God's earth. This is how He wants the earth to be. Is it making sense? This is how He wants it. Not that we are doing things so that we now get reward and going to stay in one city. No. This is how He wants the earth to be. So this is heaven on earth. Rain of His kingdom in the earth. You blessed. You blessed. Such a fit and blessed man. Thank you.