on our hearts, your spirit. And we trust


again that in this service, the eyes of


our understanding will be enlightened,


flooded with light to leave you with a


greater understanding of your plan, your


purpose, your will for us. And even as


we again investigate the unseen realm


and study about how we can be wise and


strong with your


power, we declare that there is no


confusion in this house. I declare that


we shall be transformed, edified, and


built up by your word in the name of


Jesus. So that the things that ought to


be said in this service will be said.


The things that ought not to be said


will not be said. The things that ought


to be done will be done to the praise


and glory of your name.


Amen.


God bless you. Have your


seats. Amen. Hebrews chapter


11. Hebrews chapter 11 and verse one. It


says, "Now faith is the substance of


things hoped for, the evidence of things


not seen." So you can say you are a


believer and you are not keen with the


subject of the unseen. Faith is the


evidence of things not seen. You cannot


have faith in God and be ignorant


concerning the unseen. That is the


meaning of being foolish in your


living because faith is the evidence of


the unseen.


Hallelujah. And it says for by faith the


elders obtained a good report which


means they bore witness. Verse three it


says through faith we understand that


the world that's the periods of time the


aons the cycles of time the periods of


time were framed put


together put into use by the word of God


the word of God shaped it framed it so


in every period of time God's word have


come to the different men hence how they


had faith because faith comes by hearing


so God's word have shaped the different


periods of time where men had faith in


God. Then he says that word of God that


framed those words came in a pattern so


that the things which are seen were not


made of the things which do appear. So


that the things which are seen the


things which are seen were not made of


the things which do appear. So the seen


and the unseen word. So the seen


explains the unseen and that's how God's


word comes to us. Hallelujah. God's word


comes to us in that pattern that the


things that are seen are used to explain


the things that are not seen. Again, 2


Timothy chapter 3 and verse 15, Paul


writing to Timothy says, "From a child


you he has known the holy scriptures,


which was able to make him wise unto


salvation." Underline that word again,


true faith, which is in Christ Jesus.


The scriptures is to make us


knowledgeable about the faith. Then he


says all scripture is given by


inspiration of God. The scriptures are


written by man. But it says is given by


inspiration of God. Which is why we say


the scripture is 100% God, 100% man.


100% man's in writing, man's


expressions, but 100% God because God


information. Amen. Hallelujah. Just like


we explained the incarnation 100% God


100% man. That's how the scriptures also


it is God's word as much as is man's


word. That is man's word doesn't change


it from being God's word. Such beauty.


Just like when we prophesy and say to


hear the Lord that is God that is


speaking to you does not mean that it's


not me that said it. It's me that said


it but it's God that saying what God is


saying is what I said. So it's God that


is saying it but it's me that is saying


it. That's how the prophecy of scripture


also is. No prophecy of the scripture is


of any private interpretation. Holy men


prophesied as they were moved by the


Holy Ghost. That's how Peter puts it. So


he says all scripture is given by


inspiration of God and it is profitable


for doctrine. So we get our doctrine,


our teaching, our explanation of our


understanding from the scriptures for


doctrine, for reproof, the evidence


concerning what we believe, reprove,


correction, instruction in


righteousness, that the man of God may


be thoroughly furnished and that's the


believer may be thoroughly furnished.


Now observe that it says that scripture


makes me wise unto faith. So that means


we can study from Genesis to Malachi and


see the same things that are in Matthew


to Revelation. And I've corrected that


understanding that comes from


overzillious teachings that have this


idea that the Old Testament is Genesis


to Malachi. It is not in the Bible. The


use of the word Old Testament for


Genesis to Malachi was not used by any


prophet in the scripture. Instead it was


used by the


translators Melito of Sadis and all the


uh uh translators original first


translators are the ones what are we


going to call Genesis to Malachi we'll


call it old testament and not old in the


sense I mean there's a history on this


which you can be can fact check there's


none of Genesis to Malachi prophet ever


called the books they wrote Old


Testament never neither did any of the


apostles called Genesis to Malachi Old


Testament. So when they use the word Old


Testament in the Bible is not the books


but an arrangement that is now expired


because that's why we no longer offer


sacrifices. We no longer use blood or


bulls and ram that has expired. That is


the Old Testament that has expired. Not


the books. The books does not have an


issue. Amen. Because those books are the


books that the apostles taught what we


now call the episodes. Amen. So the


scripture is not fighting itself. It's


only giving meaning now from the ending


part because now we have seen some of


the uh the mystery Genesis to Micah.


Some of the things that were not so


clear are now clear because we see the


death, burial, resurrection of Jesus


even to his ascension. We see clearly in


the giving of his spirit. the ascension


part and we see all this has come


together to help us understand oh this


is what the prophets were saying oh this


is how they were saying what they were


saying and that now informs and helps


our biblical interpretation


amen but we can never ever remove the


place that what we teach what we preach


should be consistent with the revelation


that is in all the scriptures amen Paul


said I said none other things. So we say


the poline episode that Pauline episode


is none other things than those in which


Moses and the prophet said and that


ought to be how we study. If not we run


the risk of editing the Bible and not in


an interpretative sense but trying to


change what the prophets all the


apostles wrote which is now going to we


uh make shipwreck the faith of many


which is wrong. It turn the gospel to


like you are you an entertainer, you're


a content creator, you're a skit maker


using the Bible handling the word of God


deceitfully. So must be careful of such


approach. Amen. Romans


16 or precisely let's read


15. Romans chapter 15 and vers 4. It


says, "For whatsoever things were


written at full time were written for


our learning, that we through the


patience and the comfort of the


scriptures might have hope." That we


through the patience and the comfort of


scriptures might have what? Might have


hope. Patience and comfort of scriptures


might have hope. So what about we're


written our full time. We're written for


our learning. So even to the


stories even to the stories the stories


that you have from Genesis to Malachi


had to communicate doctrine and we put


it this


way never read the stories in the Bible


like you are reading a story book. Why?


Because the stories were not written as


the stories were happening. Remember it


is if I tell you something that happened


last year in L10. I'm not informing you


of a story as if you don't know. I'm


obviously going to use it to communicate


something. That's how the prophet use


stories because they know that same


story. But now that it is written, we


said those stories are used to tell his


story which some people say history is


his story. And that's okay. So that's


what the prophets did. They use the


stories that the people were acquainted


with to now communicate God's story


which is the gospel. Communicate God's


plan and purpose. That is God's story.


So they use those stories. So you can't


say oh this is just a story doesn't make


any meaning. No it's put there


deliberately for learning for doctrine.


Amen. And again we said in the inherency


of scripture there are no errors in the


scripture. Are there errors in the


scripture? That's use the word


inherency. There is no error in how it


was written by the originals writers.


The error is only in our understanding


or in our bias or in your secrecies as


we will call it properly. Amen. That's


where the confusion can come from. But


there's no error in what was written.


Scriptures interpret scripture. That is


the rule of Genesis. The scriptures can


interpret itself. sufficient enough is


every scripture to interpret every


scripture because the movie unfolds


itself that at the end of the movie you


understand oh so this why this was said


oh this why the protagonist the


antagonist oh so the whole plot was all


around this when we read the whole


scriptures we see everything come


together not one portion against the


other


portion is that okay so just like any


literature. The Bible is now a holy


literature. The one that tells God's


plan and purpose, but it's still a book,


a literature. And remember, there would


be intelligence in the communication. So


over the years, I've now began to use a


phrase which we say the biblical writers


deliberate because if we say the


prophet, you only just see them as


unintelligent people. But always


remember that the writings were edited


by more intelligent persons. They say,


"Oh, he's just a fisherman mind. You


don't know what he was saying." Have you


read this? Are you smarter than that? I


think it's fisherman. Come on. Be


intelligent in how you


some you can't even write rhymes. You


can't write for words to flow. You see a


flow. You see the use of figures of


speech. Calm down though. Calm down.


That's not how the word of God came to


us.


Amen. Hallelujah.


All right. So, because it is their


material, their name remains on it. Just


like today you write a book and if you


are not good with spellings and all of


those things, you have an editor. You


pay that editor. Now, that editor


doesn't change your name. Accept is


cost. It's your name that will still be


there, but it's your book, but it has


been given the


standardization by that editor. So, just


doesn't work. so much in this country


but outside the countries that's why the


editors can even tell you let's change


the name let's put it like this not to


their name just because it will sell


better like this so the publishing


houses and all those editors go through


the whole stress of ensuring that is a


good work of


art amen so right from Genesis to


Malachi we have stories events uh


parables


prophecies teachings


things, wars, crisis, I mean all manner


of normal life occurrences all written


together and that's what it says to make


you wise unto salvation through faith.


So don't throw it away. So a teaching


like unseen spirit world they say is


that in the Bible? So the very first


thing people do, which is that lazy


approach of reading the Bible, they just


type it. S P I R O I T space W R O L D


space spirit world. Zero reference. Say


I said it. There's no spirit word in the


but biblical words have for example the


word angel has at least 15 phrases used


to explain in Genesis to Malachi and you


only have angel in your mind and you say


you I now know authoritatively on the


ministry of angel by typing a ng l of


which some of that ag was used for god


was used for man now you are in trouble


where we now say this is say h no you


can't tell me


But you can call an angel. But you don't


want the biblical writers to call a


human being an angel. See how we


determine no the right allow the writers


to be intelligent just like you have


brain. They have brain and they are


permitted to use the word to refer to


something else because the and it should


not be confusing because they did not


know that we're going to be cramming


which is again a form that brings down


your IQ where you say it must be this.


So every time I see this wall, it must


be this. It mustn't be. So hear the


conversation. You are an adult. You can


process conversations. Hear the


conversation. Then you can give meaning.


Not that every time we use this word,


this is what it must mean. Come on. We


are human beings. We are man. It is


given to man to be spontaneous, to be


inspirational, to bubble forth. That's


why man by design is naturally


prophetic. is normally priestly and


kingly. He needs to dominate to have


dominion. Man by nature is wired. That


is the office of humanity. Not the man


in Christ but humanity. But in Christ


Jesus is now used to steal what God's


purposes. Satan gives nothing. He only


perverts or twists or misuses what God


has given to mankind. Amen.


And so a teaching like unseen forces


being wise and strong with his power.


We've been looking at quite a lot of


things. We've looked at the Ephesians


chapter uh six. We will still go back


there again where we'll finally uh see


what is we've given a context already


about oh that wrestling and we know that


oh there are dark powers uh principality


powers might we see all of those


spiritual weakness in heavenly places.


or look around some of these different


other things


about how God made man, how man ought to


function. But this morning we want to go


a bit further to open up the unseen


realm a bit more. Uh we did in our very


first part of our teaching but we ended


on Wednesday with the powers of the word


to come and we said Hebrews chapter 6


that is the power God has and that word


to come is the power of God's kingdom


that we are in. So we are not waiting


until God's kingdom take over the whole


earth physically for us to now finally


walk in power. No, we already have that


exceeding greatness of his power. That


power of the word to come is the power


of his resurrection. We're already the


people of resurrection. We're already


the people of resurrection. That death


has no hold over. And now we function


and live without power. Amen. Now we


function and live without power. We


don't wait. And we said it makes our


days bearable when we live and function.


Because the sufferings of this present


time, there are sufferings for standing


for the Lord Jesus. Because the whole


constitution of the power of darkness is


against life, light, love. Anything that


involves light, life or love that is of


God, there is forces designed to oppose


that. And so in living for the Lord, you


will always notice that enmity. You


always notice that opposition in your


living as God's man in your standing in


your assignment. You always notice that


opposition. Hence why Paul and all the


other writers says the weapons of our


warfare are not cannon but mighty true


God. It's called spiritual warfare. And


that is the warfare not a warfare in the


sense that we are throwing blood with


the devil that we have an opposition


against our living for the Lord. Amen.


And it's more than just casting out


devil. That's a part of our how we live


on the earth that we have to exercise


authority over the devil. But the


broader use which you say we'll get back


to that shortly in some days to come in


our series on that Ephesians 6 because


there some things we just say


straightforward. We have to be helping


the understanding progressively. But the


warfare there has to do with our living


that there is an opposition against our


living. So say the weapons of our


warfare we war we wrestle the Greek word


pale we have conflict who we are in


conflict with is not Mr. and Mrs. This


it's not brother this and sister this


but it says principality and


powers those rulers of darkness of this


world spiritual wickedness that is the


confrontation the spirit that is


influencing those people's action and


that's why we teach on unseen forces


because most people do not know that


there are spirits that can influence


their actions because they feel like no


everything I do I do it on my own I lie


you they lie on Man, the way man was


created, man is a product of influence.


That's why I can influence you, you can


influence me. If you stay a lot, if you


spend long a lot of time with bad


people, you begin to live bad, act bad.


If you stay around people who are


intelligent, you begin to look


intelligent and sound intelligent. If


you stay around dull people, you'll


become because you are a product of


influence. You can't say it will not


affect me surely going to affect you.


You stay around dirty people, you'll


become dirty in a short time. You stay


around people who pray, soon you will


begin to pray. If you want people who


love to win souls, you will join them to


win souls. Man is a product of


influence. And that's why God made


living is one of the ways that make


living so easy that our environment can


shape


us. So anything I want to be, I stay


around that


environment. And little things can


reveal people when people fear certain


environments that help them stay


straight upright and all of that you


know something is fundamentally wrong


with their minds. So they're going to do


something else that is awkward. Genesis


1 verse one. Let's start from that text.


In the beginning God created the heaven


and the earth. In the beginning God


created the heaven and the earth. Now


Moses is writing. He's not the first man


who ever lived. So he says in the


beginning do not read it like he is


doing once upon a time time. No, he's


teaching his audience about God's plan


and purpose. And he says in the


beginning the word beginning there like


we've said over the years the word he


uses for beginning is the word orit


which means first fruit and first fruit


is not the first thing that happen where


you are farming instead is almost the


last stage you are harvesting. So you


must already see how he uses the word.


So he's showing you a pattern that this


is what God is looking for in so when he


says in the beginning again which is


intelligent writing because he writes


with a pmic in view which is he's


confronting the idolatrous background of


his day. So he's defending the proper


understanding of the of of worship of


God. So he's making an argument


for how things ought to be. So he's


writing a pmic and in that he says in


the beginning not what you have in the


enum elish the popular Babylonian story


of creation that was everybody had a


copy of such writings not what you have


in all of these different things that


the word came from this the world came


from this the world was created by the


many gods just like you have many


mythological many uh creation myths in


different cultures today. So he says in


the beginning God so and he uses the


word in the beginning the word rashit


which is the same word used for first


fruit which is the same word used for


firstborn you have to exist before the


firstborn and so he says in the


beginning so he's not saying


uh God in dateless past began don't do


all of that that is going to make it


look like this is the very beginning of


time. No, Moses is the one writing to


try to give us an understand of how


things were from the beginning. Not that


Moses is in the beginning of time. So


now say how come he's writing about the


fall? How did he know? He's not the


first man and he's already Moses is


after the fall. How can you not know


about the fall? It's like you writing


about what happened 2020 and 2021 and


people are saying how did you know how


was life


now? So it's not new information.


Did you get that? So it says, so he


picks his phrases. He picks his words.


So he says in the beginning. So notice


of all the many words to use for the


word beginning, he picks a word that


shows that we have plant. We have we


will first clear the ground. Plant they


will now harvest. That thing we have


harvested. The very first one is called


the first fruit. That's the word he uses


there in Genesis 1:1. In the first


fruit, God created the heaven and the


earth. That shows you exactly what God


planted. So within his writing, you can


already see two things. This is where we


now say you have heard some preachers


say Moses was writing about the new


creation say no about the beginning of


time. No, because he uses the word


first. So something was planted,


something went wrong which he will show


you in the same chapter before you now


have chapter that we call the fall of


man. as if Moses is not already writing


after the fall. Is it before or after?


He's already everything is writing is in


fact God's


word came to us after the fall. So there


is no writing or there's no teaching of


God's word that


known even if you want to say the one


Adam there's no teaching of God whether


by oral tradition or now the form of the


technology of writing when it came after


the rise of the Egyptian uh empire and


all of that hieroglyphics and all those


form of writings and later oh Moses and


the rest in that culture now can write


and process thoughts. So what was passed


on by oral tradition is now documented


in a book not this but in the book that


the the kind of paparous scrolls that he


had in those


days that


understanding that he's writing about


must be clear. So when he says in the


beginning in the first


fruit so that means are there activities


before that beginning


before the the first fruit are there


activities thank you so that's how


intelligent the man is in his writing


Moses when he say in the beginning god


does is that what he had in mind he


wants you to know that there is a plan


and purpose of god and it hadn't changed


even though something happened. That's


why after verse one, you now have two


and three that seems to show you why


that something happened. So you see the


earth without form and


void. So in the beginning, God created


the heaven and the earth. In the first


fruit, God created. So what he planted,


what he's


harvesting is heaven and earth together.


Yes, sir. And that's why as I taught you


on Wednesday the that phrase end of the


world is not destruction of the world


but the completion of his project what


is it going to still harvest heaven and


earth together because that is the


plan heaven and earth were made to be


together we're made to function together


and again as we use the word heaven if


you are new please don't run your mind


to a planet that is not from the Bible


you got that from but maybe idolatry or


or foolish use of science


The biblical heaven and earth are


together just like the physical heaven


and earth are


together. Heaven and earth is always


together just as it is in the physical.


That's how it is in the spiritual.


Heaven and earth are


together. Amen. So it says in the


beginning God created the heaven and


earth together.


which will now in Hebrewism how the


Hebrew people use words and in their


culture in their language they will now


use heaven and earth figuratively to


speak of the union of God and man later


on so in the beginning God and man in a


house God and man together it's the same


thing heaven and earth together God and


man dwelling and living together that is


the intentions of God that is the plan


and purpose of God and When we


understand the plan and purpose of God,


that's where we find purpose. That's why


purpose for every human being is it's


it's unique and and general at the same


time. Why? Because it is the same plan


and purpose of God that we all have.


It's the same plan or will of God that


we all have. But I find purpose in his


plan.


So purpose all that I do all that I pour


my life into will be in that regard. So


those things we now call career part


those are just as exactly as it is


called something I'm doing for money


that's not why I live I live my living


is


for is so I find purpose in his plan I'm


living towards that plan and purpose of


god because he made man for himself so


god


man or god and humanity when you don't


have a single Just me and God. God and


humanity together was the plan from the


beginning. So man was made for


God. So I find purpose in that


intention. Let us make man our image and


let them have dominion. I find purpose


in that intention. I find purpose in


that. And it doesn't matter what I now


call it which can which is where it


becomes unique from person to person but


he's still in that plan of God. So this


person comes from this angle in how he


fulfills purpose in how he lives for the


Lord. I've told you before all those


other things are not


purpose as basically how we express


ourself. uh whatever you aren't trying


to do do it well because in your living


on the earth you have to be involved


with physical activities and those


physical activities is in your


interaction one with another and that


physical interaction one with another


shouldn't stop you from living from the


Lord but instead with that same physical


interaction you still live for the Lord


amongst men because you dwell amongst


men hallelujah


amen Amen. So right from that Genesis


1:1 it says in the beginning God created


the heaven and the earth the earth was


without form and void upon the face of


the deep. You notice the two face of the


deep face of the water. The spirit of


God moves. So the spirit of God will


counteract the opposite of so face of


the deep spirit of God upon the face of


the water and God said let there be


light. So spirit of God moving on the


face of the water is where light come.


We have explained this in many of our


other meetings. So we we'll skip two and


three for today and come back to it as


we make progress where we teach on the


powers of darkness shortly


uh in this series. But what I want you


to observe is how he uses the word in


the beginning God created the heaven and


earth. The heaven heaven there is from


the Hebrew word shamaim which means


lofty high above. It's the same thing in


the Greek Oranius which is high above


lofty high


above. So when they use the word heaven,


it's the unseen domain within the earth.


Look at Exodus


20. Exodus 20 and verse 4.


Exodus 20 and


verse4 is from verse three. He said,


"Thou shall have no other gods before


me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any


graven image or any likeness of any


thing that is in heaven above, that is


in the earth beneath, or that is in the


water under the earth." Does this look


like heaven is in a different planet?


Because you're talking to people on the


earth. It doesn't look like heaven is in


a different planet now because it's


talking to people on the earth and he


say don't make any of heaven above. Does


that look like heaven that cannot be


accessed? No, that look like a heaven


that can be accessed. He's not making it


the way he's using the word heaven


there. He's talking to people and say of


heaven that means is it that they can


contact heaven above? Yes, obviously.


Because like we said in our very first


part when we taught on this series last


year, funny enough, I was looking at my


notes. Uh it was even in the month of


May, I was still teaching on onces last


year,


right? We said man contacts the


word. Man can contact heaven, earth and


now the one that has come as a result of


sin, death and chaos which is hell. Man


has authority in all the


words. The name of Jesus. Every knee bow


of


things, things on the earth, things


under the earth. So you have authority


in theory words. Say with me, I have


authority in theory what I have


authority. Now see it also mentioned


exos


20:4 in heaven above in the earth


beneath other is in the water under the


earth now that's how the ancient men


explain hell water under the earth so


you understand the reason why people


teach marine powers you can see the


illiteracy of scriptures that be the


literacy they have in scriptures why


they always have to say there


is because they use water why does the


ancient man use water because water is


away from the earth and the body of


water takes you under. Where do we bury


people? Under the earth inside the


ground. So allow ancient men to think


like ancient men. So now this body of


water the the seas the oceans as we call


them which they will just call it seas.


Water is not where human being can live


because it is chaotic. It shows that it


is not designed for human beings to live


inside of it. And it is an unruly evil


that no man can tame as you begin to go


down because the current it has waves.


It has currents. It it it it can destroy


ships. It can scatter


things. So it is now used by those


ancient men to explain


chaos. Are you getting it? is now used


by those ancient men to explain chaos.


This is chaos. This is


chaotic. Why? Because the seas were


feared. One moment it is calm, the other


moment


every it is unpredictable. Abby. Yes


sir.


The things that live in it are far from


our world.


So that is what they are communicating.


So they use the word oh the waters the


sea to show that


difference. Did you get it? So because


it can be


chaotic. Have you seen what water does


where what do they call those uh


disasters? Tsunami and the rest of it is


nice. Ab you like it. Have you seen the


power of


water? So is there a force to it? Now


imagine living inside where is


vary they look


for. So and imagine an ancient


man. Imagine an ancient man thinking. So


how do you think he will process the


information?


How you think we process


information as


chaos? This is this is because remember


they didn't even have swimming suits.


They even have special apparatus in


their time that they could use to enter


into water. So this is a foreign world


though. So what would they call it? The


waters is another


world. Are you seen how ancient men


think? Remember we said don't bully


them. sit where they sat then cross over


and have the same meaning your own world


today. So today we won't use waters


under the air to explain hell but allow


them use that


phrasing which you also see in Genesis


chapter one in the creation story you


see how waters was also


used. Amen. and also mention alongside


heaven the waters above the firmament


the water above and the water underneath


all of it is deliberate teaching by


Moses which you said is packed full but


if all you want to have is Moses is


teaching us creation story you'll be in


trouble because Moses is not teaching us


creation


story alone is teaching us God's plan


and purpose using creation as the


parable


He's teaching us God's plan and purpose.


The same reason why somebody asked me


over the years I said where is the


unseen world chapter one I said is there


in many places is there in when Genesis


1 verse one when he said heaven is there


when he said face of the water I said no


now is there when he said sun and said


no now I said Genesis 2 verse1 I said to


the host of the heavens and the earth


when they were finished so it's you that


didn't have heaven there because you


were reading a give me a science


explanation say where are all those


other animals like the uh dinosaurs. You


you are turning the Bible to what it is


not. It is it is not a science book. It


is not it is


pre-science. Not is not against science.


But don't turn the Bible to what is not.


It will put you in trouble in your


interpretation. When you want the


biblical writers to interpret science,


was there science in their day but what


was in their day is


powers. Nobody is doing science.


Everybody is there's raw contact. I mean


unlike today now where science have


shielded the unseen world. People could


be walking down the road and just run


into a company of angels and they and if


you say you saw angels, nobody was


nobody was going to be thinking it's


strange. Just like our forefathers would


say, "Oh, I was going to the village and


and and somebody appeared before me."


Everybody nobody's going to be looking


at them surprised. in the village


there are things that shields the unseen


world that's why when I was teaching on


vision I told you the word apocalypse is


the unveiling the so there are things


that veils the seen world and I give you


some examples uh the original design is


for the holy spirit to be the one who


takes us into the unseen world who leads


us who is the access and where there is


safety even if there was no corruption.


God was always going to be the one to be


the be the vessel we or be the one we


live in that allows us access fully into


all the operations or the fullness of


the


heavenly realm as it were. It was always


going to be in Christ in God in our


faith in God. if you want to use the


word in Christ in my faith in God was


always going to be how would I have


access to


it but you see like I've told you before


the mind is the distance between the


seen and the unseen world the mind the


mind because God created


man in a manner that he has a physical


body is what where he puts his mind that


determines what he's doing if I mind


physical things I'm doing physical


things if I mind spiritual things. I'm


doing spiritual things.


So the unseen is now veiled. How? How?


What veils the unseen? The sin, the


physical. So once I lift, that's why the


phrase for sin to the spirit is called


lift up my eyes. Once I shift my eye


beyond his natural use, I will be


contacting the other world because he's


not far. is here.


But there are now natural things that


can also make a man's mind which is your


one of the greatest instrument you have


on the earth guard your heart with all


diligence for out of it are the issues


of life. Now that heart that mind if not


guarded look at certain things that can


put you between words. Yeah. Because


man, I'll give a physical different


physical examples


where high on drugs and weed can put you


between words. Huh? It look like the


person is beside themsself in that you


can tell that that's not how man is


supposed to function in the unseen. So


it's not fake. It is corrupted. Is never


you can't trust information. Sometimes


you say I got that wisdom from a mad


man. It's because he's between


words because now his mind is not


functioning as he as he should. Now that


is not what you should love and say


that's supernatural. There's nothing


supernatural there. That is the


perversion. That is the corruption


because his mind has been eroded by the


drugs. You see we've had stories of


people who like that. I remember then I


was called, "Oh, brother took Arizona."


I didn't know what that mean. I said


thought he was traveling abroad or


something until he said he took it


like whatever that is. It puts that that


blood all of a sudden because he didn't


have the the mental fortitude for it or


the physical uh infrastructure to handle


it. It knocked him out. He was between


walls started talking and seeing


Ah, that's not in the realm of the


spirit. Are you seeing? Because that the


way God made man. So that put him


somewhere. And people were wanting to


hear because he said some things that


look accurate. How foolish can you pro


be? Nothing should be trusted here. Now


there's a reason why God is the source


of information. Why he said we shouldn't


get information from other things?


Because they will lie. They would it is


not exact. It can destroy lives. Amen.


Oh, the brother got free and he


regretted and when he was told all the


things he was saying, hey, I don't


remember. Of course, because he I not


remember be not remember not because he


has been doing it for a long time is


because he was not himself. We are


supposed to be with full consciousness


when we walk in the seen and unseen


world.


But he the the the level of intake put


in between words is the same thing where


somebody hasn't slept for long and they


are stressed or going through divorce


crisis all these many uh pains anguish


failure my whole world has ended I'm


dead I'm stress broken the whole emotion


is in a wreck and a mess if the person


again do not have any mental


fortitude does not know how to handle


the emotions as a skill which people


learn in the natural. It will again go


between words and at the moment you look


like ah is she possessed. Is she mad?


Why is she sounding like she's not she's


not herself? Oh she's between words.


He's between words and you again you can


see that this is not the normal order


because see how he's contacting it.


exhaustion, fear. Hey, I'm all of these


emotions getting the better of the


person. All of a sudden, the person is


between words. But I'm between words


intact. That is the order. I'm between


words intact. So again, you see


it third. All of them are over third


way. You have seen people over the years


and this as you pastor for me I've seen


all of these things in different persons


over spirituality which is not true


biblical spirituality where uh all these


things all these pastors are teaching


they don't know what which is the reason


why I oppose all those not apostles and


even now with the nonsense dramas they


try to act that speaks against the


prophetic ministry which god will judge


them because people write so much


against teach us about the true


operations and stop teaching us always


about the force, the force, the force.


Let people not throw away the baby and


the bath water. You say, "No, we also


say it. Okay, act a movie that teaches


true prophetic." Now, we not go see. Why


are we always fighting the real move?


Every time there's this man of God,


there's this generation. This is our


generation. Teach the real one. Why


don't we hear the real one from people's


mouth? We want to hear the real one is I


committed a crime. I c the devil I don't


have rank for making a mockery of of and


it's okay social media makes people


popular to these days not again not


based on their biblical study or their


impact in life of people is how much


they have mad people on YouTube cutting


videos for strife and using to broadcast


their insanity to the whole world this


pastor said look at pastor uh look at


bishop's response to uh Dr.


If you are not caused, why are they


responding to each other? Well, how did


you know they responding to each other?


You now go and bring a video of 5 years


ago. You caught it here. Look at pastor


Chris responding to and the people who


watch those things are the


same cloud without


water wicked because they foster that


devilishness because that's not how


anybody learns. That's not how anybody


grows.


It's all these things not put in check


that also brings us to the place where


somebody is also


now that over spirituality that I will


show brother Jeremiah that I can overdo


him that testimony I shared he has not


seen any testimony I will go deeper hey


there are realms there are realms is the


same thing there are potters there are


dimensions okay


and no longer going in the way of our


Lord Jesus Christ. So you begin


to actually I've even seen some of them


do there's a a video of the of a lady I


play PS4 and PS5 there are some of the


games they try to look use good music


some of them are chant there's one I was


showing my wife they doing ah I say this


is one pastor's popular chant that they


using to


play because it's not peculiar to


present you to do oh let's go to Cool.


It's not peculiar to naturally in music


is one of the way you


move in when you are trying to oh from


here move here oh use it just because


you are trying to connect the lyrics the


tempo the beats you just do some of


those oh not that it now turns to the


music that again is no longer music


because we should hear what is being


said there should be


words nothing is being said other


than for one hour. It is the very same


thing ek people do the vision of light


and sound which is the reason why they


they meet grandmaster which is the same


reason why all these people now get


demonized and we have seen too many


persons who follow those not apostles


get demonized because they just sit down


on their


own for 2 hours you couldn't pray in


tong for 1 hour but you can do a for two


hours are you not possessed no wonder


they came for you what is a for two


hours what the hell are you doing just


sit down ah ah


Ah ah is this not how people get mad 2


hours doing you don't so you didn't even


hear what you were saying he say ah this


words that cannot be


altered but you


be it looks


funny but you don't know the pains we


have gone through because we have had to


lay hands and say devil get out from


that child of God where you now say was


Was he possessed? Was he obsessed? Was


it because you you have not confronted


the powers of darkness? Because now we


can't tell again because he's acting


like he's


possessed. That's why sometimes when we


see something I say let just give


sleeping messy, let them sleep when they


wake up because because for the honor


sake say they cast out devil from the


way and they cast out devil the real way


like you casting out from


unbeliever. How it


happen from all of this. I I will show


them. Reverend have not touched


anything. He's holding back there hold


back. Which pastor now not hold back? Me


of all the pastors in the world I hold


back.


Hey, he's holding back me that many


pastors in Nigeria hate for teaching


people how the time write many letters


were written to me that you think


supernatural you want members to not


love us. You're doing supernatural doing


super adventure meeting across Nigeria.


You think you are the only one. You


think you are the Why did I say I'm the


only one? The meeting is for other


people. That is you don't answer


criticism like that. Nei say I'm doing a


great work. I cannot come down. I don't


come down to your level


cowards. They give them


response. After I've seen some two years


later, sir, can I get your messages? No


response. 5 years


later how you respond have any response


if you were following me then you have


all the time we have shared post you not


see


ww media now who you want to talk to I


have no words for people that I don't


know where they are


from back to what I was saying so that


kind of


spirituality there's one that has


happened I think was it last year I'll


be or this PSF of somebody amongst us


that again my message were not enough.


He mixed my message with other people's


message and yeah


there's that thing you are looking for


say there's more there's I also say


there's more but we put it in the proper


place if it was there's more you are


looking for I also say there's more and


I put it in the proper place where there


is more but the there's more that you


are looking for is I will show them I


will you can do nothing against truth


but for the truth so once you lie


against the truth you contact sensual


devilish that wisdom


Because that wisdom by which he's using


to press deeper is not of God and


because he has no again mental


strength. James says that wisdom is


devilish. See the empowerment came from


the


devil. I need to be spending time alone.


I don't want to be coming to church. I


want to be doing 12 hours. I want to be


doing 15 hours. You don't have a


job. How can somebody be praying 15


hours every day? It's a sign of of of of


ignorance. Now they say because I really


love Jesus. Go get a job. Please go get


a job. I don't pray 15 hours every day.


I won't try and not not because of my


great love for you. I won't try. I will


make money. I will try it. I won't try


it. 15 hours 15 hours every day. All of


you give me 1 million and I will start


it. You can until you can fund my


lifestyle and fund my generosity and


fund everything that I use money to do


in this life. I cannot try to kind of


just sit down. Even Jesus did 40 days


every day of his life.


I


lie. No, there's times you there are


times you do that. But to make it a


pattern in the apostolic kada it is 12


hours. Shut your prayer. You can't heal


fly. Shout, shout, shout, sing. Get


away. Get away. Don't complicate


spiritual things. Don't complicate it. A


lot of people have been demonized with


all those complications. The things of


the spirit are simple.


You say, "No, you have to." So I'm about


to ascend into the realm of immortals in


the in the as I move into the ecclesia


of the great Zion of Monach of the great


monarch of Zion. I


see the embellishments of his


glory and the vistas of Yahweh shine


before me and I with all a


bullance speak forth and say Yahweh is


enough for me.


So it's just no grammar, no physics join


them together.


It's not enough. Bishop is did a lot for


God. It is not enough. You should press


in. If he did not sleep for 35 days I


imagine you hear me those stories I say


we should die my


father many they lie on all those


pastor's


[Music]


head just


like when I finished my days and my time


and my angel have come for me they now


say story about that I wonder how my


children will be listening like say


reosa was not a man he never slept say


My daddy and I used to climb his bed and


on top of


his because he was no man. He was an


immortal and people are listening then


they go deeper. That's why we press on.


We press on. We press on. We press on.


We stay without food.


We It's also how hard they used to go


between words.


So man should not live by bread alone.


He didn't say don't eat


bread. In fact so the the there's what


is called emphatic mention the empas is


there that man lives by bread. That's


actually what he's saying. Man lives by


bread. Man lives by food. Food is one of


the reason why you don't die.


But he's saying yes.


Oh,


food like food


[Applause]


though live by bread alone alone. So


that means there is something else man


lives by the word of God. So everything


about our living is not physical. That's


simply what he was saying. Not that you


should not eat bread.


No, no. William Abraham was no man.


Well, it was not only once he did three


days. Oh, you lie on their head. So,


Lebran was no man. You see that hallow


did not show up in his head. That's why


you don't believe in grace.


You say now God especially anointed me


say what is that? There are dimensions.


So you dishonor everybody because you


don't believe that God can uniquely


place a man like this because of his


heart preparation or prayers before him


or something. God has a reason for


because there are two types of grace.


There is the common grace and the


uncommon grace in


theology. Common grace is common to


every man but the uncommon grace is not


for is not common to everyone. There are


reasons for God's own choosing an


election like that.


And that's what differentiates people.


That's why we all not gifted the same


way and we all stay in our office not go


beyond the line of the boundaries God


have set for us. Amen. And intruding to


things we do not know. Amen.


And that brother say oh there is this


thing Dr. Malpa is no man. He's no man.


We have children, but it's no man. The


man will be wondering, "I'm no man. How


could I not have children? Am I a


woman? It's no man. No, no sleep. No


sleep. No more eating. No more sleeping.


For the next one year, there are realms


of God to bowing to the lordship of the


written word, without good wisdom, what


happens to the person? they switch


between words to the the devil takes a


hold of them because first and foremost


any man whose heart is not bowed to the


lordship of God's word any man who does


not have mental


strength can easily be blown by any


wind and that's why it doesn't catch


everybody and it doesn't catch people


who preach it because they know the


devil is


defeated but the people that don't have


the same knowledge that they have they


catch them because that's how you know


it's a wrong doctrine. It easily leads


to people being


perverted and people have gone between


words like that in the name of there's


more I tell the story of many many years


ago how a brother left us we didn't see


him for months then he came back doing


bush we what was his issue we show that


I'm greater than that wisdom is not from


God that pride that made him use that as


his reason to


engage the unseen because that wisdom


was not from God it opened him come up


to wrong inspirations and they couldn't


tell. I've seen people who pray and they


are saying uh I want angels to be


appearing to me and different angels


appear to me and they tell me their


name. I am angel makabes. I am


angel logos. I am angelma. I'm


angma. Calm down. Calm down.


I am I am


angel.


Yes.


Joker. And who left people astray? All


those people who started saying things


like I was praying in beside the Legos


barish. What you pray now? Bab pray now


pray you know go there with your go


relax I was praying in the lo barish and


the angel I can't remember this story I


think brother knows this they were his


mentors growing up we delivered him from


those people


uh and the angel of prosperity in the go


appeared to


me I not give you money and you are


still broke say no I saw The re and it's


not a demon. You say the angel. Okay.


And he showed me how people rise. How


people you need an angel to appear to


you from


beach. Why the angel have to appear from


the


beach? Everything is just wrong about


the old vision. It doesn't look like


Bible. But is dimensions. Now when you


are every dimensions those things never


have ever worked on


me. Bow to the lordship of the written


word. That can't be God. It was a demon.


If anything appeared, which of course we


know nothing appear, it's just a lie.


Nobody lies more than all these


exaggerators. Yeah. And I'm so shocked


by when I see them talking, all I can


just see is lie, lie, lie, lie, lie. And


you're talking about


sin. This month he talk about sin. Every


week talk about sin. Every service talk


about sin. With all this lie in your


life, do you stand before God at all?


Level of lie. Is it the level of


levels? No. God's word comes to us to


make us have proper discernment and


interpretation. Amen.


And people have gone between words like


that.


Oh, oh, I'm about to ascend.


And people have


gotten. So between words is the same


stage. Then the last of course which is


uh when you sleep physically not die


sleep you are between words between


conscious and unconscious. So


subconscious became the phrase the uh


scientists began to call that state


subconscious. You are between words and


it's the same thing that leads to death.


In the same thing when a man is dying,


he's between words. Which is why the one


of the ways of raising the dead is


calling the spirit back into the body.


Because the person's spirit is now


leaving the body. Not that the mind is


between words is now the spirit that is


now about to leave this word.


So come back into your body and


depending on what the person believed


when they were alive on the earth it


makes it very easy. I can be 1 second 5


seconds. People who have will to leave


are easier people to raise. People who


don't have will to live you have to go


against just the same way the natural


way when we pray for you to be healed.


We have to continue again and again and


again because the person that they don't


understand is the same thing or the


people holding on to the person they are


will is too strong and because they are


the reason why the person came into this


world in the first place they have every


right to lay hold on the person which is


why when we pray for people who are dead


we always say where's the father or the


mother who is saying this child will not


die who is saying this person will stay


alive we see the biblical pattern the


mothers the fathers wanted their dead to


be raised because they brought them into


this world. There's something spiritual


about giving life. There's something


that's why true parents that pray, a


good father, a good mother who prays


know things about their children because


life at its core is spiritual. There's


something about that thing know that


something is happening to my child


somewhere. I may not know but something


is happening to that child somewhere.


Something is happening to my daughter


somewhere. But those who deaden their


senses away from the spirit will never


pick any of such prompts when it comes.


It's the same reason why we can


hold these are some


even older people knew when their father


died. They just say seems like something


is happening to my father somewhere. I


can't but man has lost man by too much


science. Science science we have


forgotten that every human being has


intuition.


every human because man at his core is


spiritual. Intuition is natural to every


man. Intuition intuitively that's why


you felt like calling somebody you call


the person the person say are you on my


mind though because it was not it's


intuition and intuition is one of the


ways God now uses to also speak to us


because intuition is a normal way spirit


communicate to spirit. Amen. Amen. So


back to what I was saying about people


have contacted the spirit realm like


that and the one I did not mention is


where you now go and visit a diver a


charmer all the different names the


Bible calls them sorcerer and all of


those people and they now by familiar


spirit and all the other forms of


necromancy divination any other form of


such lead people into the unseen that


But how


we process our mind. I mean there was


that sister who was so in love with our


brother and in when a wrong influence


came upon her. We heard


stories and he supposed to love me


because she was not herself. Now all the


secrets of our heart were


revealed. It's not with us anymore.


Right. So was a serious issue


because she again was very ill because


that illness uh uh let me use the word


you say high fever. You said there's a


lion in my room. Have you seen it papa?


There's in your room better treat it.


You are going your


mind and so doctors have seen all of


these things. So they know they


prescribe something for the you see that


is not that's why some of them don't


believe that there's an unseen realm


because it looks like it's just it's


just the mind that is happening your


mind does that mean it's not the realm


of the


spirit that is happening your mind does


not mean that it's not the realm of the


spirit it's supposed your mind is how


you live in two words your mind because


you need to be conscious you need to


think you need to do things so your mind


is very very important


Amen. All right. Quick summary I did


there. So which is why we gather our


mind. Gather our mind. Which is why we


always judge. We always judge and test


all spirituals. We always judge it. So


when somebody say the Lord said I'm


seeing something. We always judge it


with God's word. Can say now lie and say


no you can't tell me I know what I saw.


Nah lie. Not the Bible. Not be so wrong


spirit talk to you.


Same spirit that told that one that God


hates poor people. That's not the spirit


of our God. That's not even our God or


our Jesus. The same one that told the


other one, all those spirit that is


telling them all those things, we know


it's in the book of Job. A spirit told


me, you see, I like it like he say a


spirit, one of Job's friends said a


spirit. That's how a spirit used to talk


to people. But and it will mimic the


voice of Jesus for you because he wants


to deceive you now.


Once your belly is your God, you will


hear God's


voice sounding through your belly,


speaking your belly infrastructure for


you. Mmon mmon will speak to you,


masquerading like it is Jesus


Christ. Same thing, anger, pride, all


those things have voices. That's why we


say never confirm in the flesh what you


heard in the spirit. So for me when I'm


not in a good mood or whatever that


means which I rarely am ever in because


I hate those positions in the


mind I don't make


conclusions say ah this ah that hey this


because don't confirm in the flesh


especially when you are dealing with


people you have inside information on


don't now be using circumstances


to what God told you in the spirit what


God told you is more important than


because circumstances can blow things


and you cannot interpret things


clearly. Amen.


So God is a spiritual being. God is


spirit. Is that not what scriptures


teaches? So we're saying uh Exodus 20


verse4 is what took us to all of these


other places that I was. It says that is


in heaven above that is in the earth


beginning 20:4 that is in the water


under the earth. So the fact that the


air or the sky is what typifies the


heavenly domain in itself shows us that


the heavenly domain is on the earth


because the air and the sky is what is


used to typify heaven and that is on the


earth. That's the same way that


limitless space called heaven is within


the earth just like the limit. Have you


gone in a plane before? Do you see that


that you keep going up? Keep going up


that limitless space is still within the


earth. So though it's called a world


because it looks away from the ground


but don't mean that it's not a part of


the earth. That's how the biblical


cosmology is. Is heaven and earth and


the sin and death of man is what


produced hell. The place of death and


the unseen being which is that


serpent is now the lord of that death.


The place of the dead which is why that


Satan is doesn't mean that he's the only


one. I've told you before in case you


are new that word Satan is not a name of


a person but a


function. The word uh uh I can't call


you the oad that is wrong.


The precious D fisiah the Nelson D alis


I know now you're not the only Alice in


the world is the but the Hebrew word


Satan ha Satan h a ha Satan the Satan is


an


office shock you even used for the lord


when he was


resisting balam and the lord stood as


Satan on the way So imagine you have


always worshiped words. Never worship


words in the Bible because it's an


office an adversary. The Lord stood as


an adversary against him. Let's study on


that a bit and see how people uh because


say that's where people had this idea


there's only one Satan. How can there be


one Satan? There are Satans,


adversaries, devil and his angels. Devil


again is


not one. Devil is a function. Satan is a


function. Those two words are functions


just like angel is a function


terminology. So in the realm of


darkness, Satan, Satan, devil are all


function


terminologies. I don't


agree.


Wow. First and foremost, agreeing is a


stupid statement to make when you hear


doctrine. Just you agreeing or not


agreeing doesn't change


anything. I said, I don't agree. No, no.


It's not what we like that we say. We


teach from scriptures and we are


to accept what is in scripture because


the other one could be pride say I don't


agree but there's no other reference as


I always say to our brothers that argue


a lot you see after we have read all the


references for the word say I don't


agree I said then go for check


up I'm very blunt I said then go for


checkup because there is no other


reference you are saying you don't agree


so how does your not agreeing change the


fact so because you don't agree I'm


supposed to now accept I can't accept


what you are saying man you are still


wrong you're not agreeing because


there's no other reference for this and


you're saying you don't agree then


that's your pride go do


checkup you know the checkup now go to


green white green


building that's why we have psychiatrist


let them investigate you if you are


still fit to live among us I don't say


all this


part I don't agree I don't agree because


you overestimate your agreement.


Friends, I don't agree. I don't agree. I


don't agree. There's no other. We have


read all the reference. We said that


word I remember doing this for a pastor.


This word that word Satan is used 27


times. I said let's read everything. He


agreed. I read everything. He say no I


can't agree that that word is used for


is used to describe God's


action. How is you're not agreeing baba?


You blind. We saw I don't agree. You are


overestimating your agreement. of what


uses your agreement say I don't


agree so that word


Satan Satan as we pronounce


it


Satan that word Satan is used 27 times


the first time it was used is number


22:22 funny enough it was first used to


describe God's anger God's anger as


God's anger was an adversary blocking


the way because God's anger was kindled


because he went and the angel of the


Lord stood in the way for an adversary.


Are you seeing it?


The angel of the Lord stood in the way


as an adversary against him. Now he was


riding upon his ass, and the two


servants were with him. And the ass saw


the angel of the Lord standing in the


way, and his sword drawn in his hand,


and the ass turned aside out of the way,


and went into the field, and Balam


smoked the ass to turn her into the way.


But the angel of the Lord stood in the


path of the V, the wall between on this


side and the wall on that side. And when


the ass saw the angel of the Lord, she


thrust herself onto the wall and crushed


Balam's foot against the wall. And he


smoked again. And the angel of the Lord


went further and stood in a narrow place


where there was no way to turn either to


the right or to the left. If you can do


this to stop a man from going to


cause can do this to to stop people from


knowing from assessing my house can keep


me safe. And when the ass saw the angel


of the Lord, she fell down under Balam.


And Balam's anger was kindled and sm and


the Lord opened the mouth of the ass.


And she said unto Balam, "What have I


done unto thee that thou has written me


these three times?" And Balan said unto


the ass, "Because thou has mocked me, I


would I would there were a sword in my


hand for now would I have killed the


imagine how strange Balam was." He


didn't even think he didn't think it


strange that he answered back when


people would have


run. That's how he was a man of the


unseen. No fear. You know he has strided


two realms before. Once you have gone


between two worlds several times. You


lose the normal sight of things. The


things that start a man that shakes a


man. Say just talk what you want. Talk


first cuz you are not somebody who


interprets things the way normal people


interpret things again. And the angel of


the Lord said unto him, "Wherefore has


thou spitting in thy eyes these three


times? Behold, I went out to


withstand thee. That's the same word. So


you see how many times it's used. Verse


22 and verse 32. As an adversary and to


withstand. I went out to withstand thee


because thy ways perverse before me. So


it was used there as


adversary. Did you get it?


adversary. So if you are it's only 15


times you see the word Satan as Satan of


the 27 you have it only 15


times as Satan. So all the other times


what was it now called they use the word


adversary directly adversary or


withstand and it's amazing that for the


very first eight times that that Hebrew


word Satan was used it was never used


for the devil up until the very first


reference where it was used for the


devil which is 1 Chronicles 21 verse1


one before you now have


Job and Satan stood up against Israel


and provoke David to number


Israel then Job 1:6 7:8 so that word


Satan must be seen as a function the


function of an adversary one who


withstands so and Satan now has occupied


that office as his primary role in this


world is to be opposing and withstanding


people. Are you following? So that's the


word


Satan. Did you get it? An


adversary. What about the word


devil? The word


devil is also a function terminology. It


is an accuser. So the Satan is an


adversary. Devil is the word accuser.


Slander.


Slander. It is the word used in first


Timothy 3:1. Even so must their wives be


grave, not


devils, sober, faithful in all things.


That's the word slanderer there. 1


Timothy 3:11. That's the word slanderer.


There is the word exact same Greek word


diabolus.


Devil.


Devil. Don't be a devil. A slanderer. So


that's the word slanderer. Is the same


word in second Timothy 3:3. Without


natural affection, truth breakers, false


accusers. That's the word false accuser.


It is the exact same Greek word.


Diabolous devil. So you see it's used to


describe human because it's just a


word. Oh boy. It's just a word. So it


can fall for how you use


it. So so don't cram say angel is always


human being. What if the angel is using


that context to describe man? What is


used to describe an action of God? So


the context will reveal what it means.


Amen. The same thing again in Titus 2


and verse 3. So 2 Timothy 3:3 Titus 2:3


use the word false accuser. The aged


women likewise that they be in behavior


as becoming holiness, not false


accusers, not given to much wine,


teachers of good


things or slander.


to


accuse, to take side


against. So that's the word devil. So


when you uh and again the word is


plural. So when you see that word d v i


l that there's no s is over time why


people believe that there's only one


devil. How can there be only one devil?


That makes him too powerful just there


everywhere and he's moving to and fro.


calm down because we don't want to see a


multitude of evil spirits because we


want one. And I think we did that in our


very first part of our unseen forces


when we taught it last year on unseen


for we explored. I mean that is the most


thorough teaching you will ever find on


unseen the unseen realm everything


they all right so it's something to


think about again and again. Now for the


sake of what we're teaching the same uh


being wise and strong with God's power.


So we said that heaven is the unseen


domain within the earth space. You know


that was the unseen world is within the


earth space but it's not a definite


specific location that you can


physically go to called unseen realm. No


but it's in the earth. It's in the


earth. The same reason why the earth or


the sky typifies the heavenly domain.


So but they are not far one from the


other. They are in the same place. But


can they be distinguished? Yes, they can


be distinguished. That's why heaven the


unseen word here the seen word here can


be distinguished. Just like male and


female can be


distinguished but they are the


same purpose. Male and female created he


them. They are both man.


Male is man, female is man. So the male


man, the female man, both of them are


man. One man that is male and female.


One humanity, man. Man man, both are


man. Man man just that it can be


distinguished. But you can't separate a


female from being a man. You can't


separate a male from being a man. Both


are man. Are you getting it? Right. So


just as the male and the female were


made for each other in a union that's


how the heaven and the earth were made


for each other as so they are not ps


apart they may appear


so by uh distinguishing by constitution


unseen sin male


female but they were made for each


other.


Hallelujah. Clear, clear,


clear. So in that unseen


realm, in that unseen realm which will


now be it is a realm of God and divine


being. So the unseen realm is a


word of God and of divine being. A word


of God. Oh, so that means the earth is


not of God. Hey my lord, who hears like


that? Stop hearing what was not


said. So that divine realm is the realm


that houses divine being, spirit being.


So spirit being are different from they


are disembodied. So they don't have


physical body. So angels don't have our


physical body. God is not man. and God


is spirit. So they live in the unseen


realm. Now before


God allow us use that phrase created the


unseen realm where was he? He was where


he was in and that's why that word also


used to explain God heaven. But that is


dominion language now says the heavens


higher than the heavens. God is higher


than the heavens.


higher than it. So, but we have to put


him somewhere because he's spirit and he


made beings like him that are purely


spirit, no physical body. Those are what


we call supernatural beings. Spirits.


So, we now have theory words we used to


break it down. Terms that describe the


nature of a


thing that describe the function of a


thing and the status of a thing. So,


supernatural beings the same thing. Man,


the same thing. So the nature of this


being there are terms that describe


their nature. The nature of the


residence of the unseen realm of the


spirit world of the supernatural world


of heaven. Do you get it? There


are nature technologies for them. There


are function technologies for


them. So it is the realm of God and of


divine beings. The realm of God and of


divine beings.


Look at that. First Kings 22


19-23. Therefore, hear the word of the


Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his


throne and all the because it's a


vision. So, it say sitting on his throne


doesn't mean that you have to put his


bum bum on a chair. I hope you get it is


because it's a vision. It has to make


sense. If not, it will make no the man


can't interpret it. If it doesn't come


in human language, won't make any sense.


Oh boy.


Mhm. So he say sit on his throne. So


that's the way it can make sense because


of the way normal kings sit and their


subjects are all around them. But the


meaning of the word throne does not


always have to have a chair because the


word origin of the word throne means


surrounded by his subject. That is the


throne. The throne is not the chair. Aba


if you break the chair that means does


not have throne again. No the throne. Oh


beautiful people are laughing. makes the


so if they break the chair what about


kings that have changed their chair the


chair is not the throne his chair was


made by a furniture


man chair but his throne is that he have


subject that is his dominion that's why


it can be used for thrones dominion


principality


power it is the dominion did you get it


so surrounded by so the throne of God is


that he's surrounded by angels surround


surrounded by beings that worship him.


So he's higher than his


authority. So it is the realm of God and


divine beings. We said the unseen realm


houses all spirits while the sin realm


houses all physical beings. So the


unseen realm houses all unseen being.


The spirit world houses all spirit


being. The physical world houses all


physical beings or physical things. I


prefer using that word things because


you know there are some things that are


not beings that are physical. So the


same thing because so people have asked


oh this one this one are they all they


are not all the same by nature. So we


prefer the word


spirit spiritual uh heavenly


things heavenly creatures just like


earthly creatures there's animals and


there is human being there there's


plants are they not all creatures that's


how the unseen realm is there is


creatures we like calling everything one


word but that's not actually Bible study


because when you study the Bible you see


different words you see that there are


supernatural beings that look like


creatures


Then the brain is awakened to proper


actual


study. So the unseen realm it's the


realm of God and divine beings. It


houses all spiritual things and


entities. It houses all spiritual. So it


is structured like a house and a


temple. It is structured like a house


and a temple. So let's read that. First


kings 22:19 and 22 is structured like a


house or a temple or a palace which is


the order how ancient men think because


every king the original meaning of I


work from home started with the monarchy


system that's why till date the monarchs


work from home their palace is in their


house they rule from their they live


there they reign there they rule there


they rule from there are you getting it


all right so they are all put together


and you You see those three words,


house, temple, palace, all used to


explain God's domain.


Clear? Yes sir.


So first kings 22:19 to 23. He said,


"Therefore hear you the word of the


Lord, I saw the Lord sitting on his


throne and all the host of heaven." Is


that supernatural being or physical


son? No, it's not physical sun, moon,


and star. host of heaven standing beside


him on his right hand and on his and the


Lord said who will entice Ahab that he


may go up and fall at Ramad Gilled and


one said one another showing you


conversations that happened behind the


scene


okay now these kinds of spirits are what


is referred to as watchers by function.


I explained this the last time but we'll


get back to it again but not this


Sunday. Who will entice Ahab that he may


go up and fall at Ram G? And one said


one to another. Another another said


then a spirit came forward and noticed


the nature the a spirit because they all


spirit being


ruak ruak spirit.


Then a spirit came forward and stood


before the Lord saying, "I will entice


him." And the Lord said unto him, "By


what means?" And he said, "I will go out


and be a lying spirit in the mouth of


all his prophets." And he said, "You are


to entice him, and you shall succeed. Go


out and do so." Now, therefore, behold,


the Lord has put a lying spirit. See the


interpretation so that you don't get it


twisted. Say, uh, what exactly is


happening here? So, the man knew what


the vision was. Of course, it's not


exactly word for word, but he has to


communicate in a way that can be


understood. Are you


following? Ahab must die. Ahab must die.


That is the divine conversation. So that


is mentioning God is that that is the


divine conversation that even God is


fully aware because Elijah had first


said it after the Nabot Vad issue.


Elijah has said different prophets have


said it. God is aware and even God the


side of the man because he refused to


repent. He refused to change. So that's


why you can ask it in a vision. Not like


God is saying I'm hungry. I need to kill


a man. I need to kill a man. Help me.


Help me. I can't do it on my own. I


don't want to stain my hand with blood.


No, that's not how to think. Because if


you think it like that, you are


projecting your own ignorance into the


text and thinking that's what they are


saying. That's not what he's


saying. Visions are interpreted


doctrinally. That's why you can never


have a vision beyond your doctrinal


persuasion. If you


believe if you have a doctrinal position


where you believe you will miss heaven,


you will have a vision where you saw


yourself missing heaven. as if heaven is


where they used to go like


that. See if you have this vision, if


you have a doctrinal position where you


have Jesus building physical houses for


you in heaven, you will have vision of


where Jesus is at the site with his


helmet. Say today's work not easy. We


are just trying to build uh mansions for


all these people because they are really


winning souls. Oh.


M the way Jeremiah the way pastor S


winning souls let's so say I roll me


that fufu


there Jesus K catch it like this roll me


that pound there today sidewalk no easy


you know you not press it like this one


side


come the way that shows they eating like


a


hoodlump come out from two side Is it


bread or


is


anyone and say car today noisy say but


we we go again tomorrow to complete our


mansion people have they are actually


people who have had those kind of


visions


where they some of them cast theel and I


said and while I was s there it was


about to


rain somebody didn't get that in heaven


about to rain you Now use


umbrell


mad is the people that have been


believing you there how many women have


bought car from it


one Margaret and co all of them that's


that woman's name now and there are many


of like four of them all evil people


have cash out on people's


ignorance when he say he says the lord


showed me I saw that he had in still on


the head. If you are if you are not an


idiot, how can somebody that is alive be


in hell? You say but you see the


audience gulping it say can I get part


two of the


city go to school. No people who are


alive are in here is then so look like


nobody touch deeper people they will see


now mention I saw daddy


WF in hell


too he say yes so then say we should all


repent that one


[Laughter]


hell ah


Ah


ah the Lord should mark iniquity who can


stand. If he I have missed it just


forget


it. I have already missed just forget


it. Ah no no no no remove my name.


Remove my


[Applause]


name and that's you can tell is the


devil to put fear in people to say I can


live any I


no some of them have confessed that it


was that they were sick. They had that


the same way they were between words.


All those I told you that people between


walls. They actually saw


something. Some of them have come out


just that we could not get their car


back. They could not restitute


it. I mean all those wonderful visions.


You see pastors will invite them. You


see the pastor's wife will not tie hair


as if she's about to


escape. So that they invite the person


say this sister are gone to


heaven. What is o mean is that the ones


always go to hell that means they were


not saved. If they always are going to


hell in their vision it could be they


not born again or their doctrine is


messed up or one of the two. So we need


to investigate the two their doctrinal


persuasion or if they are saved that's


only when I hear somebody say I went to


hell. Two things on my mind he was not


born again before or his doctrine is


messed up. one of the two and it's night


is always one of the


two I was I was always going to hell


then they will give you the idea say ah


it's not easy only five persons only two


persons which heaven is that the one we


are functioning from now that's the


problem because you are waiting until


you die that if you how can I now who


I'm already living in heaven not know


I'm going to be in heaven when I leave


my


body is it that I don't I've I've been


nowhere before


That's so it's some people when they die


they are first I realize that oh wow I'm


I mean I'm in the unseen yeah only that


now you you are without use because you


don't have a physical body to transact


so you just


wait till we all put on immortality


because you are not transacting anything


you're no longer in having a physical


activity on the earth so you can only be


watching physical activities on the


earth if there's anything like


that are you following


Okay. But did you catch what we saw in


22? It gives this idea that God meet


with a group of spirit beings to decide


what happens on the


earth. And that's for real. And you


could spend a lifetime in some


traditional churches or setup or reading


the Bible and never know that there is


there is such a thing as that and it's


not in one Bible verse. I wish it was in


five. We can say it's not much. I wish


it was in 10. I wish we can say it was


in 20. But


alas, it's littered all over the


scriptures. That idea that God has a


host he works with. But before you say,


"Ah, that's not fair." He also has a


host he works with on the earth that is


called human beings.


God has supernatural beings he works


with to decide things as much as he also


have physical beings he work with to


decide things. And we are part of the


physical beings he work


with. Amen. And both are called ecclesia


assembly. Assembly. So there's a


assembly of spirits that he works with


and there's an assembly of human beings


that he works with to decide things on


the earth. Hallelujah. Because God


always likes our involvement. That's how


you know real


authority. When you say I'm in charge,


I'm in I'm in charge. You always fear


what the other person will say. This I


always beg husbands. I don't know how


they get this their funny authority


from. I am the man here. I'm the man


here.


Go get I'm the man here. I'm the man


here. So because you are the man here,


you can't allow your wife talk. Say I


don't want to hear your voice in this


house because I make the law. I make


decision. I you can already see that


your eye will be


I you are doing things too much now.


Which one is that one? Look at God more


powerful, more wise rather than anything


and any being allows engagement. You are


not human. I must say you are not acting


human and that's where violence come.


You act like a beast when you always


have to use authority like that for you


know you don't hurt the woman that you


see because you


authority. That's not how authority


works.


Now you know that the those in authority


likes to lord the man that is on top is


the one that can serve he can minister


he can to to be the head is not I will


suffer them that's why everybody is


always trying to be the one in charge so


they can suffer that that is already


that system because to be in charge does


not mean I suffer people to be in charge


means I care I steward I manage I ensure


this thing works well it is responsible


is not the head of the home is


here. Everybody going to


hide. No, that's the wrong use of


authority that we have mastered as the


right use of


authority. Are you following?


Then we now have young ladies also who


say things like, I never want any man to


tell me what to do. Don't marry stay


single your life. which is better to


dwell on the rooftop than with


you. My friend, you're


dangerous. That song is for


you. I is better than with a clamorous


woman. It's better to go on the rooftop.


So, it's better to stay single. You It's


okay. Just keep slaying and stay single.


It's


amazing. We love you. We celebrate you.


Stay single.


Thank you. I don't want no man can tell


me what to do. We love


you. So I don't want to hear wedding cuz


the day we catch one man around you say


do you know she can never take any man


says say oh I never knew now


run and run which somebody's son does


she want to to to to


keep somebody's son does she wants to


kill say I think we over now it's always


when it comes to the man part that I


think we overdo this submission thing


when the man is is later in life he's


not doing too much. People who are not


ready for marriage always want to get


married instead of working on


themsel. Work on


yourself. Work on


yourself. There are certain traits that


are


unmarable from the man and from the


woman. So you see all those it is


better. It is better. He did when you


because if you get married you now see


that it's also better in the marriage


you are now also living on the


rooftop and that rooftop is also what


translates to the one that society now


uh is making look so normal divorce


these days because you have been


dwelling on the rooftop since you can


just stay on the rooftop male female


inclusive. Amen. Amen.


Psalm


82. Psalm 82. Psalm 82. Are you here?


Yes, sir.


Psalm


82. Psalm 82:1. A psalm of Assaf. God


stands in the


congregation of the mighty. He judgeth


among the


gods. G O Ds. Let's see how many times


use the word Elohim. God, that's the


word Elohim. So if you read it in the


Hebrew, Elohim stands in the


congregation of


Elohim or L E L. He judgeth among the


Elohims. So God is mentioned three times


in verse one. But the the middle one,


they don't they did not now use Elohim.


We now use L which is the real word for


God. Funny enough, L cuz


Elohim. The I am is plurality in Hebrew.


I've told you before instead of S I E S


E S the Hebrew use I am to show plural.


So when you see I


am shows plurality. God standed in the


congregation of the mighty. So Elohim


stands congression of the of the of the


L of the gods. He judgeth among the


gods. So that L is what he has called


Elohim. So you can't mix


it. How long will you judge unjustly and


accept the presence of the wicked? So


that means these spirit beings are


judges. They


judge. So what were they supposed to do?


Defend the


poor. Father defend the poor and the


fatherless. Do justice to the afflicted


and needy. Where you think my actions


don't matter. Your actions matter.


Notice God heard the cry of that baby.


Not he that must be


pray. So they drag somebody


husband. Is it not hear? How can can he


pray? You know after they drove out from


the house we have an arrangement. You go


cross the arrangement turn to something


else. You cannot be a witch when you are


so driver come out. God told Abraham in


that kind of sensitive matter. Remember


she had a child for him. He said listen


to your wife in that kind of serious


matter. You not we're not ready for for


spirituality.


said, "I'm so spiritual. I can't listen


to my wife." Something as sensitive as


that. He said, "Listen to your


wife." He did not know that he had a


child. You know the child that he had


for say, "Listen to your wife." Ah,


that's frightening. But that story and


God said, "I've heard the cry of the


lad, not her." And she went to one side


to be crying too, but it's not her own


crying that was heard.


Why


defend that is the justice system


because there are spirit beings


responsible for that and they ought to


judge properly to observe that's why


they have


function and that function is that


watching function to know how to report


and so we now know okay this is what is


going to be done this is what shall be


done this is what shall be done like


you're having a meeting to discuss so


what are we going to now do for this


matter Which is why it says the prophet


hears divine conversation. Where do you


think those conversations were


happening? You know what I'm saying?


Like some of you now there are


conversations. Should we we should help


him? We should help him. We should help


him. We should help him. Those are


conversations. Even the spirit beings


are looking for. I've seen people and I


could hear that ah and I just had to


tell them do this or do this because


it's obvious that they have blocked


their ear from hearing that help because


the way they live their life as if there


is no contact with the unseen.


Defend the poor and the fatherless. Do


justice the afflicted and needy. Deliver


the poor and needy. Read them out of the


hand of the wicked. It says they know


not will they understand the work in all


of the earth. So God is judging


these judges, these gods for judging


unjustly. And people have said oh this


is man. We see the implication of this


as how can this be human judges when


this word go ds. You say no human judges


are also called gods.


Oh, in this kind of context, oh


boy. I have said ye are gods. All of you


are train of the most high. Released


you, but you shall die like men. So they


are not men, oh hey, fall like one of


the princes. Arise, oh God, judge there


again. The same word, Elohim, for thou


shall inherit all nations. speaking of


dislodging those princes from their


princes over nations, dislodging them


and now God reign and ruling through the


church as he always intended it to be.


So a


psalm of Asaf, God stands in the


congregation of the


mighty. God precides over the divine


council. That's exactly what you are


seeing


there. So there is a a council


Did you get it? So


council. Um, look at phrases like Exodus


12:12. We'll run through it because of


time. You see the word go ds. For I will


pass through the land of Egypt this


night and will smite all the firstborn


in the land of Egypt, both man and


beast. And against all the gods. Again,


the word gods there Elohims of Egypt.


And that's not you obviously know that


they are devils, Elohims of Egypt. Will


I execute


judgment? So I am the Lord. So God is


going to execute judgment against the


gods of Egypt. Did you see it? Okay.


Exodus 15:1 where they have come out


from Egypt now and they were singing


that song Miriam. Who is like unto thee,


oh Lord among the gods? The song that we


sing 15:11, who is like unto thee, oh


Lord among the gods. So you always see


that phrase of God among the gods.


People now say e they don't exist. How


is that a praise? Where I say


uh you are the finest lady out of all


the ladies and they say ladies do not


exist. How is that now a praise? You can


as well just say h you are the finest


among


dogs because it doesn't ex what the for


the comparison to be comparison it has


to exist. You can't say what kind of way


of reasoning is that one out of what


does not exist is what you to praise


God. You can as well just insult God if


you wanted to. Which one is that's not a


praise anymore. If you are praising with


what does not exist then there is no


praise


there. Say out of all the gods you are


no. So there is


God's G O D S and it was God that made


them and it was God that called them


gods. always get that clear that it was


God that so the resident of the unseen


realm are called God's divine


beings and is God who called them


so but he is a divine being different


from them and that's what is now


telegraphed by a set of attributes or


qualities where they now say none like


unto him those that uh denial statements


who is like unto him none I continue to


those denial statements are totally the


uniqueness of God above all the gods. So


which we know the popular theory that


are in the omni


category omnipotent omniscience


omnipresent no other being is all theory


no other being so that they are gods but


they are not omni but there are many


other terms and I taught you this in


that series who is like unto


God. Amen.


So Exodus 15:11, it says, "Who is like


unto thee, oh Lord, among the gods? Who


is like unto thee? Glorious in holiness,


fearful in praises, doing wonders." Are


you seeing it? Who is like unto thee in


doing wonders? Oh boy, did you get that?


Exodus 18 and verse 11. Now I know that


the Lord is greater than all gods. For


in the thing wherein they dealt proudly,


he was above


them. Exodus 20:3, that shall have no


other gods before me. So that have what


does not exist before me. What kind of


illiteracy would the prophets and the


Lord be going through that they are


communicating like that? That's not


communication.


Now God stands congression of the gods.


He judges among the gods. Psalm


86:8, "Among the gods there is none like


unto thee, oh Lord, neither are there


any works like unto thy


works." Psalm


95:E3, for the Lord is a great God and a


great king above all gods. So they


exist, but God is above them. That's why


it's called God of


gods. Psalm 96:4 and 5, for the Lord is


great and greatly to be praised. He is


to be feared above all the gods. For all


the gods of the nations are idols, but


the Lord made the heavens. No time are


those gods giving creation. That's why


you know those mythologies in your


cultures are all lies that have batala


that have all of the this one creating


this


one. All of those things now


scam because it's how those lying


spirits lie. How the devils so that they


feel like but nowhere in scriptures and


if you even tell the spirits face on


they will tell you they will agree


because they will not deny they will not


like they will tell you I'm not the


creator. Ah when you call the name of


the creator they will deny immediately


and say not me or not


me. And so when people now try to make


all of this idea, there's nothing like


that. There's something like that. God


of gods, all ye gods, above all gods,


before the gods, that means gods


exist. Look at first Corinthians 8 for


you say, "Oh, that's Old Testament." 1


Corinthians 8:4 to6. And remember


there's something like Old Testament as


it were books. I've corrected that


notion several


times. As there as concerning therefore


the eating of those things which are


offered in sacrifice unto idols. We know


that an idol is nothing in this world.


The idol is the statue that you mold.


But there's something that represent


those statue. That's the spirit behind


it. For we know an idol is nothing in


this world. And that there is none other


god but one. For though there be that


are called gods whether in heaven or in


the earth. as there be God's many and


Lord's but you see that Paul did not


deny it that they are God's many okay


but to us there is but to us but to us


there is but one one that we worship we


don't worship so we don't have we are


not


polytheistic


so did you get it so there's polytheism


there's monotasism there's henotism and


there's monolatry


Now monotism is what people feel that oh


that's what we are saying. Monotism is


that there is one God.


No we are monolatry. Monolatry is that


there is only one that we worship. The


rest are made by God. It looks like it's


the same but it's not the same. So there


are


uh


concepts say


politic different gods of which anyone


can be the number one


god but henotism now they just different


belief system many that are called gods


many lords is the same


idea. So like we said politism is the


worship of several gods which is what we


don't believe in which is not what the


Bible teaches. The Bible records that


there are many gods but it doesn't say


we should worship them. All right. In


fact that's how they become demons or


devils. Any gods that take worship any


supernatural being that worship is a


devil. In fact that's how you know a


devil polytheism.


While monotism on the other hand is the


belief in the existence of only one god


who is to be worshiped and many times in


that theory of


monotism isms are all studies. So that


study now says that the other gods are


non-existent. We can't agree with that


one because that will be denying the


Bible. That will be denying the Bible.


But the Bible does mention other gods


and they are


not. So monotism funny enough was a very


strange idea in the ancient world.


Nobody in the ancient world believe in


monotheism because they all knew that


the gods exist. You see how many times


go o ds is mentioned in the bible. So


they didn't have that strange idea. But


what they had was monu m o n o n a t r o


y just like idolatry ly.


Monolatry M O N O L A T R Y which is the


belief in the existence of many gods but


the consistent worship of only one mono


only one is to be worshiped out of the


pool of gods and that is the one that


made all the gods that's why no place in


the Bible


where any of the gods are called creator


mistakenly God is called the soul s o l


e the soul


creator. Amen.


Why? Henotism. H E N O T H E I S.


Henotism is recognition of many gods and


one is referred to as supreme. But that


one that is supreme can change over time


and that is how it is in that their


idolatrous view that today is bad.


Tomorrow it will be day gone tomorrow.


So one god reigns over then the other


one come and defeat the the god and this


one is now the number one god. Number


one just like cism number one man number


two. So they this one is number one this


one is so that's the same idea. So that


henoteism this is the number one this is


the stronger one. This is the and that


is not in Christianity. That's not what


the bible teaches.


Psalm 86:8, among the gods there is none


like unto thee. You see


it? So it doesn't deny the existence,


but it says that there is none like unto


God. Did you see it?


Hallelujah. So there are sets of


attributes that will now differentiate


them. a set of attributes that we now


Psalm 29 verse one and two ascribe to


Yahweh oh sons of God ascribe to Yahweh


glory and strength ascribe to Yahweh the


glory due his name ascribe to the Lord


oh sons of God sons of God that's a


synonym for supernatural beings the word


angel host of heaven assembly train of


the most high gods oh ye mighty sons of


the might sons of God are all phrases


used to describe Five supernatural


beings, host of heaven, angels,


assembly, children of the most high,


gods,


mighty, sons of the


might, spirits, I mean and so on and


we'll explore all of them as we go


further.


So the unseen realm refers to a world of


spiritual realities that are not


immediately apparent or present or


physical. So when we say the unseen


realm, it's populated by beings both


good and


evil. And that unseen world has a


hierarchy. Something reflected in terms


like archangel versus angel. You can


already see that there's hierarchy.


So is the realm of spirits. It is


structured like a house or a temple.


So the unseen realm and so when we say


unseen forces is now how those beings


interfaces with the earth in an


influence and the good and the bad


because the unseen realm is populated by


good and evil


spirits. Spiritual wickedness in


heavenly places. Ephesians 6. We saw


that already.


So, six words are used to explain


Elohim. When they use the word Elohim, a


half a dozen other entities that refer


to the word


Elohim, God of Israel, Yahweh is called


Elohim as well. Deuteronomy 4:35, the


members of Yahweh's council, the members


of the divine council, the members of


the heavenly host are also called uh


Elohim.


members of the divine council or the


council itself, the assembly itself is


called Elohim. You see that in Psalm 82


verse1 verse 6 and there are so many


other references which we will explore.


We did explore almost all of them in our


last year when we taught on these


things. Thirdly, the uses of the word


Elohim explains the God and goddesses of


the nations. First Kings 11:33 mentions


many gods and goddess of the nations


that people were worshiping.


Deuteronomy 32:17 that word Elohim was


used for demons, shed


deems Jeremy


32:17. In 1st Samuel


28:13 is used for the diseased Samuel.


Samuel is longer alive and is used for


him just like God said Moses is going to


be an Elohim to Pharaoh. So 1st Samuel


28:13 and the sixth reference is used


generally for angels or the angel of the


Lord or angel I also use the word


Elohim. So when you are reading the


Bible you need to know which one out of


these six entities is he referring to in


the context because Elohim is not a


blanket statement. Once you just see


Elohim it means he's God is the creator


God not true. Hallelujah.


Are you here? Yes sir. So let's be


conscious. So I use this word life is


like a force of wind. The wind reminds


us even though we can't see everything,


it still has the power to move us


forward. And that's the same thing just


like in life, unseen forces can guide us


to where we need to go or guide us or or


or take us where we don't want to


go. And we must understand how the seen


and unseen was designed to function. Are


we


good?


Amen.


Hallelujah. So the


heavens. So, is heaven going to be a


word for supernatural for the unseen


world? Isaiah chapter 40 and we end


here. Isaiah 40:21. Have you not known?


Have you not heard? Has it not been told


you from the beginning? Have you not


understood from the foundings of the


earth, foundations of the earth? Verse


22. It is he that sits upon the cycles


of the earth and inhabitants thereof as


grasshoppers. Isaiah 40:22. Now, that


stretcheth out the heavens as a


cotton and spreadth them out as a tent


to dwell in. Remember what I told


you? The unseen realm is structured like


a house, a temple, and a palace. Okay?


To dwell in that judge the princes to


nothing. He maketh the judges of the


earth vanity. To whom then will you like


him? Or shall I be equals? He the holy


one. So none compares to him. So it


shows the difference. Has I not? Verse


28. Has I not known? Has I not heard


that the everlasting God, the Lord, the


creator. Are you seeing attributes that


differentiate him? He's called the


creator. The everlasting God is the only


one that is everlasting. Told you


before, supernatural beings don't have


immortality. No, God alone. In fact,


Paul was so loud that God alone dwelleth


in


immortality. So they


are all right


everlasting. Neither is weary. There's


no searching of his understanding. So


words used to praise


God.


Hallelujah. And he said he giveth power.


Verse 29. He giveth power to the faint


and to them that have no might. He


increasth strength. Hallelujah.


Even the youth shall faint and the w and


be weary and the young men shall utterly


fall. But they that wait on the Lord


shall renew their strength. They shall


mount up with wings as eagles. They


shall run and not be weary. They shall


walk and not faint.


Hallelujah. So there's a lot happening


around me that I should be aware of.


There is a active vital spirit


word that is in this sin word.


And I must take note that of how it


affects or shapes or relate with this


word. And many of such is what we want


to talk about where why I read that


first kings 22 for you because most


people have not heard those


conversations. I've not seen that there


are supernatural conversations that


happen about people. many not in that


context of who shall go and cause to


fall. But you see the Nebuchadnezzar,


you see all of those stories and we read


all of them. We cannot remove it. We


cannot remove it. The same way we can


decide on a matter, whatever we bound on


earth is bound in heaven. Whatever we


lose on earth is loose in


heaven. So we have such power to


determine how things will go. Whatsoever


we bind on earth is bound he. Whatever


we lose on earth is lose in heaven.


Amen. And upon the resurrection today,


upon the work of Jesus on the


cross is not just a group of spirit


beings that God interacts with to


determine what happened on the earth or


selectively through some of the prophets


in time past. But now through the whole


church as a people, God


has a group of people on the earth who


he works with to determine how things


will be. And we need to know we have


such power, such authority, to determine


things, to cause things to happen, to


partner with God to see his plans or his


purpose go further on the earth. And we


play our role. Amen.


will play our role. We'll play our role.


We we'll do what we need to


do.


Hallelujah. So just as


man inhabits the physical world that we


call earth, now as our spirit beings


inhabit the unseen realm. And we're


teaching unseen forces. So we are


dealing with that world, how it affects


this world. Are we good? I want you to


find a good place to put full stop. All


right. How that word of gods, of


spirits, of might, of thrones, dominion,


principality, powers. And many times we


think it only influences this world when


it is a sickness or a


disease. You have been


deceived. It influences it in thinking


too. Many lines of thought that people


have are all from the devil are all from


evil


spirits. Wrong patterns, wrong way of


thinking and and thinking. It's just my


it's just my head though. It's just me.


I'm just


thinking so far removed from God's word,


from God's


order. Hallelujah.


We won't. No, no, no, no, no. We won't.


We won't. Imagine that senator story.


You didn't have the story in the Bible.


We because you'll be wondering how did


the man return back the same way he


came. But he say we hear a blast and a


rumor. But was there forces there? And


the king because he didn't want the king


to die there. When to he died in the


place of his stronghold. He went to his


temple where he was worshiping his god.


There his two sons daggered


him. But he said he will go the same way


he


came. Something behind the


scene. Something behind the scene.


Something behind the scene. The angels


of the Lord held the door and told Lord


go inside and struck the men with


blindness because there was a spirit at


work in those people that was wanting


them to see that was not just normal.


Why they wanted to have relation? They


wanted to have relations with those


angels because the angels appeared as a


man and Lot was trying to say oh no no


take my daughters instead say no no no


no it's


forces. It's the same reason why mechedc


meet Abraham and bless him in the name


of the Lord. Bless be Abraham of the


most high God because Abraham took two


one 318 servants and defeated four kings


that defeated five kings. You have to be


connected to the most high. You must


have connections


upstairs. I am a priest of the most high


God like you. That's what is telling


him. And we serve the same God.


So and as a priest and king priest that


was a different king priest that Mkc was


where kings go to battle for land. He


serves the concept of Abraham took note


that is a man of ranking


and he the greater is blessed of the


lesser is blessed of the greater Ni. So


it was me said there's no Abraham that


blessed him.


So but you see that unseen it looks what


about the footstep what about the one we


read last week Sunday of Deborah Deborah


uh uh Barack begging Deborah to follow


her to the


battle. What about the conquest of


David? How do you explain Goliath? Don't


use I've seen people do all manner of


strategy that it was where the stone


hit. It was the way he sw the stone. H


he's a giant. He has been fighting from


his youth. Not that nonsense that Prime


tried to depict in their don't watch


those things. I just saw the trailer. I


knew I was not going to watch it. Don't


change Bible stories. As much as they do


a disclaimer, most people still are


foolish enough to learn from those


things. Disclaimer loud like that that


it is not exactly with what is in the


Bible. Some be watching it and say,


"Wow." So that's how that story went.


[Music]


Read Bible and learn. You are learning


from what you should not learn


from. Cuz one of the what I saw in that


trailer that I threw that spear now hit


David. Where is that in first Samuel? I


can't find it first 17. Oh. No, no, no,


no. Because that looks easy for the but


it's


nonsense. And Goliath to see that


Goliath was not just


fighting naturally. Goliath ced baba


will fight. Why you call they use words?


Golth cursed David. Bible say in the


name of his Elohim, in the name of his


gods. And there said you come to me but


I come to you in the name of the


Lord of


hosts. Other


part you think you are mentioning gods


but I come in the name of he who created


all of


them whom you have defied I will take


off your head it was no longer a m it


didn't matter if David had done leg like


this for dust to raise up because I


would have still died it was no longer


about what he was throwing it was no


longer about what he was throwing the


battle have


shifted learn to shift your battles up


where you can strangle the circumstance


and because they fight for ground you


say you get leg let's go up and that's


where when they want to pray they say


unto him that dwell between the cherub


beams they trying to raise the conflict


up oh so that they can invoke the


jealousy of god over their matter and


say god ah you are you care for me oh


which some Christian don't even know how


to pray and we are taught how to pray


knowing that the fatherhood of god the


tenderness of god and so when they came


out from Egypt. Say he rebuked


kings for their sake. Suffered no one to


do them. Touch not my anointed, not one


man. All Israel was what is called


anointed because they were brought out


by forces. Their clothes did not even


wear those angels were working over


time.


Oh chariot of fire and chariot. Those


pillar of fire and pillar of smoke. You


see


it there are a lot of psalms that depict


what happened in the esodus and they say


oh praise the lord all his host who did


this and did this who defeated this. So


there were supernatural beings involved


in all those great acts that we thought


David listed all of those acts and put


then he got to ce and the rest still


listed oh praise be the lord. So there


are forces there are many of those


things we have read and thought it was


just it was just normal. It was not.


Look at the other day he said put


singers in front and as they began to


sing the Bible say the enemy discomed


themselves. How do enemies just begin to


fight themselves? The army that is going


to fight this began to kill themselves.


Ah that one that one are forces


and I believe in it. I expect it.


Yes. Just the same way people in the


natural give themselves over tootic and


say I know what I believe you don't have


anything or this one is nothing that's


see people have faith in charms given to


them by another


man I have faith in God I have faith in


his power I have faith in his help


and I'm using it


I'm using it I'm walking with it I'm


walking with


You see testimonies people are of of


major help and lifting that is false.


So that's


false.


See he didn't want to testimony in


millions. So don't mind him. He's just


being


humble. But I saw it. The woman will


give you. The woman will give.


And the woman


did it's


conversations. So that's why the woman


again said I will add to it because it's


still the it's still the


conversations. That's how supernatural


beings work. You'll be hearing


conversations. The same reason why


people have said ah no no need to help


him. I need to help him. It just look


there are sometimes when for some


persons when they when the stars over


their head is going to change like it


just look like everybody from every


corner wants to help them is because


they are there are voices


so turn drinks


lightnings they have all come


together powers are involved and that's


how God wants us to live our life amen


and that's why he gave us supernatural


beings 1:14 are they not ministering


spirits sent forth to minister for them


who shall be heads of salvation. So I


have angels ministering for me this


week. I have angels ministering for me


this week.


Walking with me this week


guaranteeing results for me this week.


So I always have a great week


in


living for my assignment.


in achieving my earthly goals. in


achieving my earthly goals in all things


in all things I always have help. I


always have help. And one of the places


that showed me how vital this thing is


in Abraham's renewed mind. Abraham was


going servant was going to get a wife


for his


son. He sent an angel with him.


So this how you


think that's how he think. Everything


needs to be followed up.


So when Eleazar the steward of of


Abraham was sharing the story to Laban's


household to that


household to uh that


household he


said and an angel of the Lord.


So you may not have seen that in the


beginning part where Abraham was saying


go and made but when the servant was


saying what if I don't now find he said


no you will find and let the angel of


the lord go with you to ensure to


guarantee that


result we are not sure again of outcomes


the ang of the lord guarantees those


results for us things are working


in the name of Jesus and I want you to


think like that live like that function


like that I'll not go the same way. No,


no, no, no. I I I we use that word on


Wednesday after that singing. I think by


the spirit is supernatural. I heard your


voice. I'm walking on water. Think by


the spirit. Think by the spirit. I will


not fear. I will not fear. I will fear


no evil. I'll fear nothing. The Lord is


with me. The Lord is with me. The Lord


and his host.


They are with me. They are with me.


That's your mantra this year. That's how


that's how you are. That's your matching


orders into this


year. The Lord is there with me. That's


how I am doing everything I'm doing this


year. The Lord and his there with me. So


how can I fail now?


I cannot fail. I'm fail proof.


[Laughter]


I win or I win.


I win or I win. I win or I win. I win or


I win. I win or I win. The angels of the


Lord are with me


guaranteeing results.


Walking with me, walking with me. Just


like they guaranteed that result and


there was no smell of smoke, they will


do a fine work. They will do a fine work


on my matter.


A fine work on my matter.


In my life, I would allow the ordinance


of heaven to rule on the earth. In my


life, I know how the heavens rule over


the earth. I will allow the power of God


to be seen in the natural tangibly. I


would engage the power of God in


speaking and in every other way. I would


engage the power of God


actively so that I can live the life God


intends me to live and so that I can


also have the result naturally that I


want to achieve. And hence why we are


teaching on being wise and strong with


his


powers. Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen.


So we have good gods with


us. Think it like that. That's how I


want your thinking to be this


week. Good gods, God, there are evil


gods that are now devils. So the Lord


and his


host, good gods are with


us. Good divine beings, spirit beings


are with


us. That's why I'm careful what I say.


That's why I'm careful how I think


because all these things set forces at


work. I'll mind how I think. I'll mind


what I say. I'm careful what I say. And


this is just a useless home. Soon it


will be a useless home. You will eat the


fruit of your


words. This is just a useless marriage.


Wait for it. It's


coming. Except somebody


actively breaks that. And every weapon


fashioned against


me shall not prosper me. And every


tongue that rises against me in sometime


that tongue that against you is your own


tongue. Many of you have reason against


you so much in this life. Say I'm not


really expecting much. I'm not really


expecting much. Is now a force over your


life. You never expect much. So when you


want to do much for you say no no no she


doesn't expect much. It's like a it's


like a a a a force. Have you seen people


who always get little do little little


things is the same way they think is now


a force over them that want to go over


and say no now that's too much now it


does little things they may not say with


their mouth but their whole heart has


captured that


littleness no I mind how I think I mind


what I


say I mind what I think I mind what I


say lift your hands and pray in the Holy


Ghost thank you Jesus


It's the same way we can give leave to


sicknesses and disease and command one


go and it goes come and uh help comes,


breakthrough come, favor come, I will


command sickness and it is to go and it


goes. That's the same way this morning I


speak healing into your body.


Everybody under the sound of my voice


believing God for a healing. Take your


healing now in the name of Jesus.


Believing God for help and


intervention. We speak that intervention


now


many divine intervention on your matter


in the name of Jesus. Amen.


[Music]


You dwell in safety. Amen. By the power


of the Holy Ghost, a thousand on your


right hand, 10,000 on your left hand,


and none shall by any means come n you.


Only with your eyes shall you see the


recompense of the wicked in the name of


Jesus.


Declare again, no eye can see you for


evil


in the name of Jesus. Amen. It is God


who made the seeing eye to see. It is


God who made the ear to hear. It is God


who created the instrument that blows.


So no weapon fashioned against you shall


prosper.


For God has made the divers mad. He has


frustrated the talking of liars on your


matter.


So any word spoken against you comes to


not because God is with you. Amen. Even


as day onto day utter speech and words


grow in dark places, secrets, words said


in pain hearts that are negative, we


dislodge those words. Amen. And only


what we actively want to see and and


have is what we see in our lives. Amen.


In the name of Jesus. Amen. And we


declare words of blessings over us.


Amen. We are never stranded.


Always in help. Amen. The favor of God


compasses us round about like a shield.


Amen. Lord, by your favor, you have


caused our mountain to stand strong. We


are unmovable by your favor. In the name


of Jesus,


another week where the angels of God


encamp round about us to protect us.


Amen. We dwell in safety. Amen. In the


name of Jesus. Amen.


Whethersoever we turn we prosper


and nothing afraid of the adversary in


the name of Jesus. Amen. Great times are


upon us


full of joy and rejoicing.


I don't do sudden fear. I don't


do depression,


sadness. No, I do joy.


Joy in the Holy Ghost.


In the name of Jesus, amen. I'm in


peace. I'm in peace. No chaos in my


life. No chaos in my life. No, I'm in


peace and strength.


In the name of Jesus. In the name of


Jesus. So go forth and prosper this


week. Amen. Go forth and do valiantly


this week.


Go forth and exceed targets. Amen. In


the name of Jesus.


Amen.