I will carry it over to the evening.


Father, we thank you this morning. We


open our hearts to your spirit and we


trust that in this service again the


eyes of our understanding will be


flooded. We like to leave here with a


greater understanding of your word. Even


again as we study on unseen forces, we


receive clarity in the name of Jesus. We


know about how the realm of the spirit


function. We know how the realm of the


spirit works. And even now again we


declare that by reason of the words we


hear will be wise and strong with the


power of God's spirit in the name of


Jesus and we will be able to walk in the


powers of the word to


come in the name of Jesus.


Amen.


We declare that in this service the


things that ought to be said will be


said. The things that ought to be done


will be done. Amen. Even as the word of


God is taugh on him that is given


to every operation of the spirit in all


entrance in revelation and in power and


we declare that we will be blessed


because we came in the name of Jesus.


Amen.


Hallelujah. God bless you. Have your


seats. Unseen


forces being wise and strong with his


power. Ephesians chapter 6 and we'll go


right to the text. We spent more time in


Ephesians chapter 6. Ephesians 6 and


verse 10. He says, "Finally, my


brethren, be strong in the Lord and in


the power of his might." And he uses two


words for power there. Be strong in the


Lord. Strong in the Lord and in the


power of his might. The power of his


might. Be strong in the Lord and in the


power of his


might. Be strong in the Lord and in his


mighty


power. In the strength of his power, in


the strength of his


might. Then he says, "Put on the whole


arm of God that you may able to stand


against the ws of the devil." So this


will be dark forces, negative forces now


that he's mentioning here. So it says


against the ws of the devil. For we


wrestle not against flesh and blood, but


against principalities, against powers,


against the rulers of darkness of this


world, against spiritual wickedness in


high places. Wherefore take unto you the


whole armor of God, that you may be able


to withstand in the evil day, having


done all to stand. Stand therefore,


having your loins geared about with


truth, and having on the breastplate of


righteousness, and your feet short with


the preparation of the gospel of peace.


Above all, taking the shield of faith,


wherewith ye shall be able to quench all


the fiery darts of the wicked, and take


the helmet of salvation, and the sword


of the spirit, which is the word of God,


praying always with all prayer and


supplication in the spirit, and watching


there onto with all perseverance and


supplication for all saints.


Hallelujah. Amen.


Now observe how he explained what we


have and how he explained about what


people often call spiritual warfare. So


spiritual warfare is not shouting and


losing. That's not spiritual warfare.


That's you casting out devil or what we


or people will call


exorcism or the Greek word is ebalo to


drive out devils. That's not what he's


talking about here in Ephesians chapter


6 because he mentions things in our


armory such as truth,


gospel,


faith, salvation, word of God, prayer.


So it's not mentioning this is not uh


there's a set of people


uh


s something there's a they call it


spiritual warfare something something


and they go up and they are binding and


losing that's how to be uh


distracted proponent of that is when


some apostles outside the country they


taught a lot about what they call


spiritual warfare where you have to go.


If you are in the air, it allows you for


binding and losing. All right? That's


how a believers waste time.


Amen. That's how believers waste time.


That's not the warfare is talking about


here. The warfare is talking about here


is in our living and pushing the


frontiers of the kingdom of God. that


the opposition we have in


our preaching the gospel and living for


the kingdom of God, we have


principalities and powers that try to


oppose that. And he's not telling us to


pick a fight and be throwing blow. He


says he mentions stand four


times. Having done all to stand, stand


therefore. Now, of course, there are


some teachers who try to remove the


whole binding and losing, and I'm not


saying there's nothing like that. But


that's not what this text is about. This


text is not about binding and losing.


This text is not about that kind of


warfare. If that's allow the use of the


word warfare since you uh this warfare


year, I remember when I first saw TL


Osborne explain it, I threw away that


book like nah nah nah, it makes no


sense. I was still much younger then.


Like no, no, no, no, no, no. It can't


be. Can't be. How can you say spiritual


warfare is preaching the gospel? How can


you say spiritual warfare? How can you


explain all of these things? No, no.


Let's shout. So, is there power


encounters with devils? Yes. But that's


not Ephesians 6. That's not the focus.


So, we must separate the two. And that's


often what is called in many cycles


deliverance. Uh so there's a difference


between how that is. Of course it's just


a it's just an English word deliverance.


So most people say no we already


delivered. Some say we need to perform


it or do the work of deliverance. Now of


course as always it's just grammar. Now


if you were looking at Bible word the


word deliverance in the Bible has


multiple meaning. People were delivered


from situations. Deliverance could also


be used to explain what Jesus has done


for us having delivered us from the


kingdom of darkness. So the kingdom of


his dear son


which that word deliverance there's the


same word for the forgiveness of sin.


Apheresis in the Greek God has forgiven


us our sin. So you see how he used in


acts 26 how use Ephesians 1:7 Colossians


1:14 all the references in whom we we


have the forgiveness of sin the


forgiveness of sin. So that is a


remover. He has delivered us, removed us


from darkness. He has given


us his spirit. We are in the kingdom of


his dear son. Now so Colossians says we


have been translated.


So all of those


teachings Colossians 1 and verse u 13


who has delivered us from the ps of and


has transited us into the kingdom of his


dear son in whom we have redemption


through his blood even the forgiveness


that's the word apheresis the


forgiveness of sin the forgiveness of


sin that's the word deliverance in Luke


4:18 the spirit of the lord is upon me


because he has anointed me to preach the


gospel to the poor sent me to heal the


brokenhearted to preach deliverance to


the captive. So this deliverance here is


preached. Amen. To preach the


deliverance to preach the deliverance.


That's the word deliverance there. Now


there


are other phrases for the word


deliver or


deliverance. Amen.


For example, look at this context. So


you see in Corinthians 2 Corinthians


chapter 1 now Paul is already saved but


he says verse 8 for we will not brethren


have you ignorant of our trouble which


came to us in Asia that we were pressed


out of measure above strength in so much


that we despared even of life but we had


the sentence of death in ourselves that


we should not trust in ourselves but in


God which raisth the dead who delivered


us from. So that is the word roi that a


rescue. Now this is still ongoing. So


you say we have already been delivered.


There's no more deliverance. What do you


mean? It has to be explained that we are


no longer in the devil's domain or under


his grip and power. That has already


been done. However, deliverance is just


an English word. So let's not demonize


the word because of some people who


always we preach we who pray deliverance


every month. renew your


deliverance or you


bring an offering for family what they


call that nonsense again family


libration. Yeah. And and so many people


have said go and find sand. If you went


to school, you should know that that


sand in your compound should not be the


sand in your compound again because rain


has been falling. It has


been so you get that. So it's somebody


else sand that you have got to go and


break in the compound and they do all of


those things and they say so that we can


put that sand and pray that the power


that held this family bound. Now of


course


uh sound doctrine does not deny that


there's such a thing as powers of


darkness that holds people down but not


for the man in Christ. And if it holds


the man in Christ down, I said I think


we emphasized this on


Wednesday for only two reasons. It has


to be that that believer is


ignorant or in unbelief because


knowledge is how you appropriate.


Knowledge is your light in the realm of


the spirit. Knowledge is your


functionality. What you don't know, you


don't live in, you don't function in. So


if it's yes, say I know I have


authority, doesn't mean you are living


in it. the Satan will use you to play uh


10


10. So Jesus said to that


woman, "Ought not this woman whom Satan


has bound this 18 years be loose." So


Jesus in his theology does not deny that


Satan can bound people and so we mustn't


have a theology that say Satan does not


bound people. Satan bound people now


sick some look at how many sicknesses


Jesus healed and casted out spirit of


infirmity. Amen. So we must not get to


that slippery


slope. But that is not what the Bible


calls spiritual warfare. So that's just


power encounter separate the two. So


there are two operations. So the word


deliverance is based on the context. So


if it's from under Satan's grip and


power that one has already happened. So


upon man Zion there shall be


deliverance. Not you come to Zion for us


to deliver you. Upon man Zion there is


the delivered ones. We have already come


out from darkness into light. Upon man


Zionia 17 shall be deliverance of the


house of Jacob shall possess her


possession. That upon man there shall be


deliverance. Deliverance there is the


delivered ones. The ones that have


already been delivered. So there are in


man Zion that's where they were


delivered


onto. Amen. So that's so true and that


must be emphasized. Amen. So when Mark


16 says these signs shall that believe


in my name they shall cast out devil.


That is not spiritual uh warfare. That's


power


encounter. The same thing in the release


of God's power. So separate the two that


from the preaching of the gospel. Now


what some people now doing? They are


preaching of the


gospel. They counel devils out of


people. No, the devil demon and there


are different levels of demonization. Uh


and which is not what we should spend


all our time talking about. But we


mustn't ignore it. And that's why


teachings like this are very important


because when you say things like it does


not is it that everybody all around you


are all pretending. No, they are not.


They are obviously going through things


and people are


obviously suffering many afflictions of


the


devil but not for the man that knows not


for the


man that is in


faith. So ignorance and unbelief gives


room makes it look like you are not


anything that God says you are. Amen.


Then many other which is the common one


when a believer is now not in ignorance


and


unbelief and now what he does to himself


he or she does to him or herself by


their belief system where they have


ideas that uh somebody cannot just live


life without there wait and see there's


this and this there's this and this and


they believe it in their life that it


can be


so now they are the ones have given give


room to those operations or it can come


from the emotional plane which is the


most common type where because of


offense that's that's why you never


allow negative emotions they are


destructive just say bless is he that is


not offend because all those things


affect it opens you up to because there


are sub demonizations in the mind where


you are being obsessed or oppressed in


your mind and which people separate and


say oh possession people say Of course


the word is just demonized. So say is


that individual


possessed when you mean possessed. Do


you mean is the devil living inside the


person? No, that can't happen when a man


is saved. Only God lives. So how did the


devil do that? He beat the Holy Spirit


up, beat God out of the body and enter


inside. No, that's not true.


However, influence is how that influence


and that's why we can shake off those


influence by renewing our mind and that


now takes us to which I said this in our


first time when we taught on unseen


forces last year that that's why we must


be particular with how we


live because how we live is now that


warfare he's dealing with Ephesians 6


our living for the gospel which is in


preaching and our conduct and that's why


the armory have things for those two


things cuz that's what is focused on now


I'm going to see explain it line by line


but just on Wednesday not uh just taking


it step by step so that our minds


Ephesians 6 is one of the easiest texts


in the scriptures to interpret but


because of the different ideas people


have so they armor put on the armor it


looks like you are going to everything


there is not what you already who you


are in Christ what you already have in


Christ. It's just how we live the


Christian life. But we get to that. But


what he told us to take off, which is


where we started on Wednesday, we


wrestle not against papa this and mama


this wrestle against flesh and blood,


but against principality and powers. And


he mentions four things. Against


principality and powers. What else?


Against the rulers of darkness of this


world. against spiritual wickedness,


wicked


spirits. So, and that is in the


opposition to the gospel. Notice some of


our songs we seek reclaiming the dark


places for our God. Now, that is who you


will run into, the princes of the


nations, those spirits that have taken


over those colonies. And the way we do


warfare, I love I think even if if we're


looking at experience, a man like Raoni


have more experience because he want


souls. So at least we should still hear


him. So if people don't want to take us


seriously, at least he want souls. He


said when we let loose the gospel, we


let loose the power of God. How did this


is in his book emergency by fire? I'm


quoting it. He said, "How did


Paul do warfare in Ephesus? Is it by


shouting Diana has fallen? Diana has


fallen or he preached the gospel. He


preached the gospel and they said in the


community that princess Diana has


fallen. Nobody will worship this


princess Diana again. That was the deity


they were worshiping your Wonder Woman


in Marvel


com DC comics


as


and they said ah and you notice that


same episode that they brought the


accurious magic books and they were


burnt so mightily grew the word and


prevailed. Act 19. so mightily grew the


world and prevailed that


Ephesus. How? What did Paul do there? He


went around shouting. So you see when we


go into a territory, we have to first


call the princes by


name. Find the name of the deity in that


territory. Call it by name. Rebuke it.


You have just distracted yourself.


You have just distracted yourself. You


have just what?


And that distraction will come at a


price because you will not be able to


meaningfully do anything there because


you already said you are afraid and you


are


under. Just let loose the gospel. And by


so doing that is the warfare. You are


contending against principality and


powers


because some devils I showed you this in


our last year series the part one of


unseen forces I showed you this that


there are some devils that are very


concerned with stopping your road


stopping uh progress your body there are


some that don't have time at all for


that what they have time for is


legislation


ations,


legislations,


policies. See the one that was walking


through Nebuchadnezzar didn't have time


for he didn't have time for everybody


worshiping world domination cuz that


that's rulers of the darkness of this


world. That's some there are some devils


that don't want you to make money. Why


there are some that are giving you the


money? Because what they are after I


gave you this I'm coming back again so


you get it because those ones that's why


they called e


demons they just harassers they harass


people say hey and sometimes even


without knowing who you are you do who


they will run the same way cuz it's it's


it's


it's


harass because um they need to that's


why they They need to be in a


body. Those demons need to be in a body


to be anything. So if they are outside


the body, you don't need to be in Christ


just who they will go cuz they are


afraid. But and we explained this. We


did that in our last year. So I'm just


trying to rework your mind. So you know


that we thought extensively about the


unseen. All right. Then there are


now the ones that don't have time for


your body. It's not your body. It's your


city.


That's why we mustn't have a gospel that


is just me me because you must realize


that God's plan for the whole world. So


just like some individuals are so


concerned with themselves and not


concerned about the whole world. That


the same way some devils are so


concerned with persons and they're not


concerned about the whole world. So what


Paul is dealing with here are the


opposition we have in our reaching the


whole world. Are you following? So it


says finally my be strong in the because


that's how you will live the Christian


life that's how you because identity and


vocation so in your vocation the work of


the believer wk in our Christian work in


our vocation we must be strong in the


lord and in the power of his might


because in that's in our living for the


gospel and that living of the gospel we


have preaching


and living which we call conduct but


they are all living for the gospel are


opposition are principalities and


powers


amen rulers of darkness of this world


and that's what he's mentioning and is


not in the name of Jesus power encounter


but preaching the god not because it


won't work but that's not the focus


there don't get what we're not saying


we're not saying if you say name of


Jesus it won't work no That's not the


focus there. The name, the focus there


is that you should preach the gospel.


Amen.


That's the focus there. That's why he


ended it with praying always with all


prayer and supperation in the spirit and


watching the unto with all perseverance


and supplication for the saints. Verse


19. and for me that utterance may be


given unto me that I may open my mouth


boldly to make known the mystery of the


gospel. Are you


following? Notice how Paul says we long


to come into your city but Satan Satan


withtood me. You know say ah which Satan


is this one? Is it because Satan has


more power than him? No not in that


context. Just like you want to travel,


they deny. So many pastors have tried to


go to those Arab region. Satan withtood


them because those because he's walking


through those people say never. Why? Why


should you allow them? There are some


they they plan a 4 days crusade. They


only allow them for one day because


Satan is more powerful when he's walking


through governmental forces. When he's


walking through people of authority, not


just one individual. So rather instead


of this one possess the overall in


charge of the army in charge the one in


charge of the police that one will have


more


effect. So understand that's why Paul


uses the Greco Roman word princes of


authority geographical location powers


not the historical setup there the in


the Greco Roman world those principality


and power all those words he uses there


are words for territorial powers what


you say people in charge of uh


geopolitical zones as we call them in


Nigeria today. So he uses that kind of


phrasing and now says but it's not human


beings cuz it's not flesh and blood. So


he said the only difference in Paul's


letter he uses the idea that the people


understand but he said it's not flesh


and


blood is not flesh and blood


principality and power is different type


because principality and power is also


used for human beings that are in


authority. the president, the uh senate,


all of those as to different countries


depending on the democracy, the uh uh


military rule, the kingdom, whatsoever


form of government they are operating.


Amen. So it doesn't matter cuz Ephesians


chapter 1, what I'm trying to say now is


not oh so there are some we can cast out


there some we cannot cast. know is that


what we often call spiritual warfare,


real biblical spiritual warfare is what


reclaiming the dark places for our God


is Matthew 28 where Jesus say all


authority in is given unto me. Go ye


therefore and make disciples. That is


the real spiritual warfare. Why? Because


what Satan fears is all the world made


and new. Doesn't fear that you bought a


car. People have been buying car. He has


even help people buy car. what he fears


is his own demise and that's what he's


actively working against so that he has


more time. So when you actively live for


the gospel you are shortening his time.


So he doesn't like that. Amen. Are you


following? All right. So do we have


authority over all or some devils?


Except we were not around on Wednesday.


On Wednesday we emphasized that all. We


saw all the references that he kept


using all. All he never said some.


all even uh pre-resurrection of Jesus


the disciples that Jesus gave the power


of aton could cast out devils


without being born again and that's why


we must refuse that statement that that


man of God said that I committed a crime


I cast a devil I did not have rank for


that's stupid


talk because this I'm saying now if not


properly explained or if you don't pay


attention you will hear and I've seen


teaches like that that uh principalities


are stronger. You can't deal with those


ones. You can only deal with demons. All


devils are under my authority. Even the


devil


himself, the person fresh out of hell,


fresh out of sin and death. We just got


the person. We plucked him. We plucked


him or we plucked her from Satan's hand.


The very instant the person crossed over


and became a child of God is now Satan's


master.


far above all principality and power.


Ephesians 1, far above. So remember we


read all the references for


principalities in Ephesians. So he had


already said before in Ephesians


1


20 we see the exceeding of his power. We


have 20 which he wrote in Christ and


raise him up in the right hand. So we


said the twin power and authority ab.


So we have power that if we were to rack


we'll beat them up then we now have


delegated power so we don't need to we


can but you know that's why the army


they train their own people unlike the


other people that I will not mention


that's why they have more pot belly as


officers because if you reach to you can


beat those other ones but the army you


can't that's why you see the color


behave yourself they trained him too to


have power so he doesn't just have


authority also have power though the


other one have power too, but it's more


of the AK-47 in the hand. The other one


without any AK7 just with the uniform


just walking


you because that's why they don't always


have to hold


gun


because they are me sight. It look


agile. It look


fit. You already know that this one was


trained. The other one has been drinking


K.


I rest my case. I love all of them and I


use all of them so so that they don't


watch this video. Fab principality and


might and dominion and over every name


that is named not only in this world but


also in that which is to


come. That's why they fear


mopo. You see those ones are a bit


different because those ones are like


soldiers. They are trained. They're not


look like somebody that is pregnant.


There's nothing wrong. Please, I'm not


trying to tease anybody or don't get my


I mean they are not fit. So they can


easily get tired. That's what I mean.


Are you following? For this innocent


thing I said now can be taken out of


proportion. You pastor despises people.


Ah I beg I beg I beg you. Let's go. I'm


innocent. Fab over principality and


power, might and dominion and every name


that is named not only in this world but


also in that which is what did I say


that you have not said


before don't you all say it everybody


always says that this these these


officers are not fit so what is it


because I said my


microphone but leave me


alone so far over principality and


powers is that the authority we have yes


sir how How many? Far above how many?


Thank


you. So he does not know


Abby. He does not know Abi that they are


stronger


ones. So are we far above all? I think


he doesn't mention demons there. He


mention principality and power. Okay.


So far above all principality and


powers. Hebrews chapter


2 verse 14:15. For as much as particles


of flesh and blood, he also himself took


part of the same that through death he


might destroy him that had the power of


death that is the devil and delivered


them. So you see that we have already


been delivered. So there's nothing that


puts us under the domain of the devil.


That's why you live your life and stop


being devil devil devil conscious except


because the only way the devil can be


involved in the Christian matter now is


with unrenewed


mind unrenewed mind that now is seen in


those two places ignorance and unbelief


and so that unrenewed mind so you are


ignorant of something so you gave him


place so Paul says give no place to the


devil how he mentions one emotion anger


where you look beside


yourself that anger makes you look like


you are now acting like a beast.


Ephesians 4 verse 26. Be ye angry and


sin not. Let not the song go down on


your don't keep anger to the next day.


Don't dwell. Don't keep things in your


heart. Your heart is what it does being.


Learn how to anytime something is not


consistent with who you are in Christ,


remove it from your


heart. It's not the memory but the


weight. Don't keep your heart is not


where you are keeping


weight. Remove it. Be not he's not


saying they have lost memory but don't


let the song go down your rot. Don't let


it go stay too long. Neither give place


to the devil. Are you seeing it? Neither


give place to the devil because that's


one of the ways you can give place to


the


devil. And that word place there now


becomes an


opportunity. You are given an


opportunity. What man calls it inroad.


And call it giving Satan inroad into our


lives. Now it's not so easy I must say


because it takes involves your


cooperation. Amen. And that's why you


know that you are doing something wrong


when you are. So it's easy to fade away


because God immediately begins to tell


you that no don't talk like that. Don't


think like that. But when we now start


resisting God, we now say God should


leave us alone. So we give oursel over


to those wrong


influences. Have you ever had


unforgiveness in your heart and the Lord


kept telling you to let the issue go?


Not letting it go will cost you because


you give. So unforgiveness is not the


same thing as uh me and the person we


are now best of friends. Reconcilation


is on the basis of truth. But


forgiveness is not on that. Forgiveness


is first because I realize that I am a


being also who requires


forgiveness. That's why God has forgiven


the sins of the world. Look at God's


relationship. God has forgiven the sins


of the old world. But it's not a


relationship with the whole world except


those who have acknowledged because


reconciliation is on the basis of truth.


We're not going to do as if nothing


happened. That's that's pretend. We're


not going to we're not going to deceive


ourselves. No, you have to confess. You


have to acknowledge homologia. Say the


same thing. Then you are a Christian.


Not just as if forgive the sins of the


whole world. Yes. But even with the


forgiving sins, they are still going to


go to hell because they have


not accepted it. So you accept there's a


recognition. You cannot remove that


reconation on the bas of truth. Look at


Paul writing to Philimmore about the


unessim case. He didn't say must not do


anything. Say no whatsoever must have


done put it on my own account. Then he


used his power. He said you know you owe


me your life. You know I've changed your


life so much. So let him go. Forgive


him. He used power cuz sometimes you


need to go that far. So I mean because


Onesimos was his his slave. Then


Onesimos left the house. They now Paul


now gotten born again. He now returned


back


to film. Paul is telling he's no longer


a slave. He's now your brother in Christ


Jesus. I know he ran away. I know he did


a lot of things that hurt you. But now


receive him as a brother. And he did not


say he did not do anything. Notice he


acknowledged what he did. That is


reconciliation. Not say there's nothing.


No, that's pretense. That's not how it


is done. Amen. Recon is on the basis of


truth. Amen. All right.


So see another uh


subto God resist the proud. Is that not


so? Resist the proud. He gives grace to


the humble. Look at James and Peter.


James 4 and verse


Six, but he giveth more grace. Wherefore


he said, God resists the proud, and he


gives grace unto the humble. So there's


something called God resisting the


proud. Did you see it? The word resist


there, antisomi, to oppose


oneself. To oppose.


So why is it like God I'm now an


opponent. God is now your opponent. No


is that pride itself is in opposition to


God. So a man in pride is opposite God.


So that's how God opposes the are you


getting it? That's how God opposes the


proud because pride itself is in


opposition to


God. is not in line, not in league, not


of God, is against God. And God is


against it. Pride is against God. God is


against pride. They are enemies. They


are apart. So a man in pride is now


against God. He's in enmity against God.


So and God is against him. That's the


regard. So when you understand from that


angle that pride itself is in opposition


to God. Amen. He doesn't allow God


because he says leave me alone. I can do


it myself. My own strength, my own


power, my own will, my own. So pride is


in resistance to God. He giveth more


grace. Wherefore he said God resists the


proud and he gives grace unto the


humble. So what does he say in verse


seven? See mentions submit therefore to


God. So that's why we live in submission


to God. We live in submission. How do


you submit to God? By submitting to his


word. Then he now says resist the devil


and he will flee.


Aha. Resist the devil and he will flee.


So he has brought devil in. Now what it


looks like devil was not involved but he


has brought the devil in. Amen. Now this


is not what you can say in the name of


Jesus where you are in pride. No. Now


those are attitudes. You see there's a


different flow. Okay we'll get it. No no


you we'll take it. First Peter 1 Peter


chapter 5.


And when the chief shepherd verse four


shall appear ye shall receive a crown of


glory that fail not away. Likewise ye


younger submit yourself unto the elder.


The younger here is the people under the


leadership of the elder. So it's he's


talking about church operation. So it's


not old people versus young people.


Physical old people. No, he's talking


about ministry structure. What we say


the pastorial structure the elder.


Likewise, ye younger, submit yourself


unto the elder. Yay, all of you be


subject one to another, and be clothed


with what? For God resisted the proud.


So, a man that is not under any


pastorial leadership that seeks to is he


being proud? He say, does he notice he


says God gives grace to the humble? So,


he's in opposition to God. Will that


open him up to the devil? Yeah,


obviously.


Humble yourself therefore under the


mighty hand of God that he may exalt you


in due time. So you humble yourself, God


exalts you. You are proud, you go


down, casting all your care upon him for


he cared for you. Then he says, be


sober. Be


vigilant. Is that drawing vigilante?


Yes. Be sober. Be vigilant. The exact


same word. Give strict attention. So be


cautious. Be vigilant. Be watchful


because your adversary the devil, a


ringing lion, walketh about as a wowing


lion walketh about seeking whom he may


devour. Seeking whom he may devour. So


it's possible for him to devour people.


All right? So the Bible is not silent on


that. But the


believer, so he says, what should we now


do? Whom resist steadfast in the faith.


So what do we


do? And again because of the issues that


you are now going through, you now raise


yourself in opposition to God.


Difficulties, afflictions, even


persecutions people go through can be


the reason for


that. Now let's go back to James. I see


something he says about


wisdom. James chapter 3.


James 31 13 to verse 18.


Now these are


subtle ways dark forces influences our


lives and shape the things that are


happening in our to daytoday that we


don't know because unseen forces have a


role they play in shaping out happenings


day to day and this is one way it


happens for many persons without them


knowing who is a wise man verse 13 and


endued with knowledge among you let him


show out of a good conduct, his works


with meekness of wisdom. If he have


bitter envying and strife in your heart,


glory


not. Did you see that? It's not


something to boast about, which often


time is what people rejoice and boast


about. It's what people are happy over.


You will see it just now. And lie not


against the truth. Now that position


where you lie against the truth of


gospel where you lie against a a reality


this wisdom descended not from above


where you tell the person you know a


believer should walk in for say leave me


alone you can't tell me that you think


I'm a fool you think I'm a this now that


lying against you where you are opposed


to what you know is


right it will now become a normal way of


living that you would think that that is


wisdom because I have sense or I have


sense you cannot tell me that it always


comes with I because it doesn't come


with you are you are making a foolish


decision no it will look like you are


thinking properly and that's why we must


never shut down third party somebody


else being involved in sometimes in our


those are discourse because you are too


involved in issue that you can't hear


that they talk I'm saying sounding and


that's why you should also mark friends


who take side with you when you are and


tell you It's okay. It's okay. And they


give you shoulder to lean


on when you are being demonized. Ah,


Satan has finished you. They have


surrounded you with evil people that


look like they are not good people. But


those people that wanted you to come out


from that situation. When you are in


those situation, you don't like


them. Misery loves come


through. They broke your heart. They


also broke my own. Let's combine. It's


all everybody. Let's join the same


WhatsApp group. Let's join the same PL.


All those things is does not bring you


out but keeps you in the


situation. No, no, no. You don't need


some I don't want to stay in the I want


to come out. You are telling me let's


stay inside. Let's let's let's collab.


No, it's not me and


you. Amen.


So he says this wisdom descended not


from above but is earthly. Look at the


three words he calls the wisdom earthly


sensual.


The third one is one we don't like but


he calls it devilish. For where envying


and strife is for where envying and envy


is that not a normal operation but he


says when people are in envy like that


it looks normal.


contentious and


strife partisanship where uh you are


looking for


faction you are not in my camp you're


not in my camp for where envy and strife


is there is


confusion that's the word commotion


chaos the word commotion in Luke


21:9 disorder chaos


God is not the author of that. 1


Corinthians


14:33, there's confusion and every evil


work. But the wisdom that is from above


is first pure, then peaceable, gentle,


easy to be treated, full of mercy, good


fruit, without pity, without hypocrisy.


So notice that is there not a wisdom in


our everyday


living? There's wisdom in our everyday


living. There are some things people are


doing and they feel that is wise in


their own


eye. And when you now interview that


wisdom in line with God's word, you see


that the wisdom is earthly, sensual and


devilish. That wisdom is


devilish. The wisdom is


devilish. Are all of these


influences? You are quiet. Yes sir.


These are influences. These are


influences. These are


influences. These are what?


Yeah. Life is like a force of wind. You


must understand that life itself is like


a force of wind. And wind reminds us


that even though we can't see


everything, it still has the power to


move us forward.


That's just the same way it is in life


that many times without knowing unseen


forces can guide us to where we need to


be or stop us from going where we need


to go.


So there are winds we should flow with


and there are winds we should not flow


with. And that's why I use the phrase


unseen forces of unseen being because I


don't want you to put your mind only on


the and not see the influences because


there are influences. So we stuck with


the word forces so that it can


encapsulate it can embody the being and


the influences together because there


are


forces and I use the word unseen because


it's not something obvious to the eye


but it's


affecting I give that example of which


is uh many of us have broken out of that


whole pattern


And nobody feels


somehow when they are being honored and


loved. But once you begin to speak


highly, let's say 70 of us here now


starts praising San David. Oh, we heal


you Son David. Oh, you are lovely. This


now laying day. But if it was you, you


would not have been bothered. That you


see how normal that wisdom is. That is


devilish. Oh boy, she didn't get me. Is


how see how normal it looks


that I'm not really jeal you are. You


are you are you are actually jealous and


you say I'm not really that's you are


just you just proved it. Why does


somebody being celebrated take something


from you? Why does somebody being happy


looks like it robs you of joy? That's


how


many of the airways have been


polluted. Many of the reasoning which is


what principalities and powers do. They


shape cultures and form normal logical


patterns of


thinking and that one is not in the name


of Jesus Christ. That's why we must bind


ourself to God or submit to God. That's


Christian living because it's not every


time there is power encounter. Some will


boldly not even want to put their finger


but be softly there manipulating your


mind. Are you getting


it? The example that I always like


using. You are buying things in the


grocery shop.


any of the grocery shop from the big


very big supermarket to the small


supermarkets all of them you are buying


things you don't think about your


life but once we mention


offering once we mention giveh your


heart just start beating like what what


is the meaning of this use my money do


again you didn't say what is a short


person using your money to do how come


something hit the


air and the air there I don't mean how


we breathe something something all of a


sudden affects your mind that's what we


use of the word air there all of a


sudden your thinking my life my future


my children what concern life future and


children concern offering now we say


give up we say give your children the


bowl now which one is my life my


children my my future for how much


offering then when you are buying


something in the market and they tell


you the price say ah ah ah


Ah, I I get somebody I'll call now.


Chief, Chief Le, send me 7 million


there, you know. Say,


okay. See how normal it


is? I have one big woman I will call now


and say,


"Da, send me."


But when we say


give boom boom say ah I also like this


let me just add it let me just add it


let me just add


it so I now I now me I like to bring


things from normal plane calculate how


much you spend in a week and see if you


are if you are not lying when you say is


God have finished your money calculate


what you you see the offering you give


in a week look at the money you spent in


a


They say I don't have offering but you


have a charge


card. But you have you always have a you


always have call


credit you always have call credit but


100 naira which is a useless amount to


give offering is you are comfortable


with it and there's no boss you can


enter for 100 naira you not think about


your life but you are comfortable is


what I have now. It's not what you have.


is those subto influences that make you


look normal because when I want to give


to you now and I bring out 100 you don't


smile though is a gift you take it but


aha so are you noticing how the dynamic


changes


everybody wants it to be big money


it's the same thing once we start


talking about honor your pastor say oh


forget that they all use they use people


they're


wicked is possessed. You see the demon


they show for the voice. You can't tell


me that that's the devil inside the


voice


because that's once they just hear


honor. You can do the experiment. Just


write on your social media page. I honor


my pastor. Let us hear a


word. All this pastor pastor pastor


any even to normal just one father


day. Happy father. What about the moms


that are slaving themselves? Slaving


themselves, killing themsel.


There's something against honor. So it


says in the last days men shall be


unthankful. Haters of father and mother.


It is in the spirit of the age.


Ingratitude is a norm. So when a


Christian is now s a Christian is being


influenced by that same spirit of the


age. Hey she should know better now. We


don't live like that.


Amen.


Yeah. We don't live like


that. So that's influence


too. That's influence


too. So wind remind us that even though


we can't see everything, it still has


the power to move us. We can see the


effect of the wind just like in that


John chapter


3 when Jesus was speaking to Nicodemus.


Now remember that story where he says


the wind bloweth where he listed and


thou he the sound thereof and cannot


tell when it comes. So is everyone that


is born of the spirit. That's the same


way life is. Life is like wind the force


of wind. Wind reminds us even though we


can't see


everything but it still has the power to


move us forward. So just like in life,


unseen forces can guide us to where we


need to be or stop us from where we need


to go. And I gave you a story which is


where we ended because of time. I don't


want to go too deep into explanations


and we're not able to close on time


because we have a a meeting later. All


right. 1st Samuel chapter 5. We read


that story 5 6 and


7 where Deon fell. So we won't read it


today. We read it on Wednesday. Notice


they thought it was coincidence. That's


how many people think like all this your


god god god you are


serving. It's just chance. There are


people standing by to look at say it's


just chance. All this he heal me this


this. It doesn't always


work. But the two milking cows mama cows


must return to their kids. You separated


the mama cows from their children by


instinct. The mama cows are supposed to


return back to their children. But they


put the ark of God on top of it and sent


it back to Israel Bashamesh the way of


Jerusalem. And you see that it was


against the incident. The mama cows as


they were driving carrying that cat were


shouting crying because they wanted to


go back but they were being led. There


was no high priest, no priest of Israel.


It was the pagan people that put it.


And by divine presence, the mama house


knew to keep going until they got to


Jerusalem.


That's force.


That is how forces shape daytoday


happening.


Amen. Can't remove the place of the


unseen. Deon fell. He thought it was by


accident.


Abby, they stood him


again. Then he remove I love the power


of God. The Bible then it cut off the


head, cut off the hand, cut off the leg.


H that is in the in their in their


timeline in the culture of in the


history of that day. That is what you


say total


anhilation. Total anhilation of the


king. That's how you you you were brutal


in showing that the king is dead. The


god is dead. That's why I say no one


worshiped again in that place


forever. Deon is


dead. And there was no man of God


channeling power.


No man of God was chanting any power. It


was box that Moses used to explain all


your failures. God glory come upon it.


God is greater than your I could not


keep the law. Put her inside there. I


rebel against Aon's authority. Put her


inside there. It was all their failures


that was inside the box. Their theory


failures of their theory rebellion.


Rebelling against God's word. They could


not keep God's law inside the ark.


Rebelling against considered authority.


The


law rebelling against


provision. So the word of God the law


put inside there. Rebelling against


authority. Aon's rod. They say Aon is


not the priest. No, you can't tell me


that. They put the rod inside there.


Rebelling against God's provision. If


God were open mana, man, what is this


coming out from our nose? We don't. We


tired of all of this. Say put the golden


and they covered it. mercy seat covered


it. God's glory is on top of it. That so


when we say that God does not impute sin


is powerful.


That is power. That God does not impute


sin is power. That's what that act is


teaching. God's glory is in that he he's


merciful and gracious. The power of his


grace and his mercy is very


powerful. Amen.


and it represented they use it to the


whole box how it was and but


notice no priest and I give you that


example it's not the same thing that


they carried into battle and they lost


nothing is wrong with the power of God


I've told you before it's always my


reception or how I'm using it the same


act that they carry to battle and lost


now they put it in Deon's Deon head cut


off why because They were using it as


cover up. How they were administering it


was wrong. Eli sons were using it to do


cover


up. Amen.


Life is spiritual and we know life is


spiritual.


Amen. Look at the second Kings chapter 6


that flows into chapter 7 into chapter


8. And I ended in the whole Okay.


chapter 6 into chapter 7.


2 Kings chapter 6 where Lord open his


eyes that he may see. So there is an


active spirit realm where you are right


now.


Active those. Okay, let's look at it


again. 2 Kings chapter 6.


First, it was strange that Elisha was


telling the king what they were


discussing in their bedroom, the other


man. Verse 12. And one of his servants


said, "Not my lord, oh king, but Elisha


the prophet that is in Israel, tell the


king of Israel the words that thou


speakest in thy bed chamber." Verse 13.


And he said, "Go and spy where he is,


that I may send and fetch him." And it


was told him, saying, "Behold his


daughter. Therefore, send he thy horse."


You see how God works. So God did not


stop them from knowing where he lives.


We always want to be in charge. We


always want to be in control of


everything. If I'm walking by the power


of God, they will not know where I live.


No, no, no, no. It's not. Don't don't.


You are in safety. You are in


safety. You are not God. You cannot be


in control of everything. Learn to let


go. You would like to have control of


everything. Control of every how


everything plans, how everything work. I


like that example Rabbi put on one of


his post some time back. A Jacob a


prophet did not know his son was in the


next


town. He cried web for his son.


Meanwhile, his son Joseph is prime


minister. Sometimes just allow God to be


God before you use your own hand and


spoil something that can save more


lives.


I like the simplicity of Elijah and


Elisha. Elisha said the Lord has not


told me when that woman was my follow me


said the Lord has hid it from me. I did


not I mean I don't know why you even


came here and you are crying and


shouting normally I would have gotten


it. So when she noticed as he saw her


common sense everything fine I told me


she said fine fine fine then she jump so


that she can approach come closer before


protocol can drag her. You know the


woman smart say as she talking the


protocols were with Elisha well say fine


f fire she's walking down fine


f said the lord has he for me I'm not


seeing it and say that son you gave me


say they go go show say he go collect


leprosy later cannot even use mantle


that somebody collected from


Elijah so when Elijah Elishah got there


use the same You know what? Corruptor


and I have to drop it. I go old


school, hand to hand, head to head, eye


to


eye. I come with all that I am. Hey,


that's all power. The guy Elisha use the


height of his power because the woman


outside the way say just like they did.


I don't talk. I got buried


that said the doctors


no was looking


for no talk


even


talk said before he knew form no way he


had the confidence to now want to pray


all of a sudden he turned and said and


the child God


up. Women receive their dead raised back


to life again. There's something about


somebody holding on in faith.


Something about that. But we seen that.


So there are things that can be


revealed. This one now they knew the


exact place. The spirit of God could


have stopped


them. Power of God could have but they


keep then they now still gather. They


were supposed to gather and surround not


as they were surround if he's really if


I'm really of God as to surround me they


will fall. Don't always do all


of don't because all those are the


unnecessary things that you now used to


say then God is not really keeping me


safe. Don't do


that. That's why you should not judge


people based on the things that happen


to them or the things that come around


them. If it's really if it's really


don't do


that life will teach you how not to be


humble. Life will teach you how to be


humble. life would teach you how to be


humble because as you keep living longer


you will face your own two and say I


don't know how people just I don't know


how people just feel weak in their body


you are still alive now you will soon


feel weak in your body give it time I


don't know how people just say I feel


cold I've never felt cold since I was


born you go live long now you're not go


die at 25 I be when you reach


42 ask you that question again if you


have felt it but you rebuke it how do


people I don't know how people just


talk thank god you are not dying quick


you are going to live long because some


things is just by experience and how


many of you are now more tolerant of


others when you are pass through what


they have passed through that's what how


god leads us you pass with other people


don't pass so that you when


you my


brother so we have not a happiness that


cannot be touched by That's why as a man


he can suck us tempted at all point now.


He knows what we go through. Amen.


Hallelujah.


So that we can never ever be ever ever


ever ever able to say God doesn't know


what I'm going through. He can't say


that again. When God has become a man no


can't say that again. He knows what we


are going through.


He's indoct and they came. Therefore


sent he horses and chariot and a great


host and they came by night and


compassed the city about. And when the


servant of the man of God had risen


early and had gone forth, behold and


host compass the city both with horses


and chariots. And his servants said unto


him, at last


my how shall we?


This is the response everybody have to a


pandemic to an issue to a happening. I


remember using this post during the


pandemic then at last what shall we do


because but we we live by inside


information.


Amen. Things are happening the economic


anything that is happening the response


people have is always at last. What


shall we do? Hey we are finished. Hey we


afraid. Hey what is going to happen? No


but look at how a believer should


respond. And he answered


what your answer to anything you see


happen around should always start with


what


that's why all of you who call me pastor


pastor I've never been able to react


fearfully about what you are trying to


tell me because we can't solve the issue


like that if I follow you to be doing


hey oh oh my god no there's


nothing fear


not for they that be with us are more


than they that be with them. So Elisha


knew it be ab is that is that true of


God's word is that do we have enough


scriptures to back that up? You know


what I mean by the re back up not back


up for wrong doctrine? Do we have a lot


of scriptures that teach the same?


Okay. But notice what Elisha now did


which is what I beg you to learn to do


in your everyday life. Be conscious of


the unseen world around you because it


makes you now not to be afraid of what


is happening around. And Elisha prayed


and said, "Lord, I pray thee, open his


eyes that he may


see. Open his eyes that he may see." Is


it that he was not seeing before? It's


not seeing that made him come to say we


are


surrounded. So open his eyes that he may


see. So obviously that


is eye of the spirit. All right. Let him


see in the unseen. And he saw and behold


the mountain was full of horses and


chariot of fire round about


who? So God was still defending


[Music]


Elisha. So though they knew his house,


though they have come to his house, the


angels were still protect. Nothing is


wrong with the power of God.


And Elisha said unto them, "This is not


the way." Uh, sorry, verse


18. And when they come down to him,


Elisha prayed unto the Lord, and said,


"Smite these people I prayed you with


blindness, and he smoked them with


blindness according to the word of


Elisha. Is this a man using authority?"


How do you think they were smoked with


blindness? Is it the supernatural beings


that were present? So, as he gave the


word, they acted on it. How do we know


Elijah's own? If man, thou man of God


come down, if I be a man of God, let


fire come down and consume. The third


time we now saw there was an angel that


was present that said man of God where


the third one


said my


lord see the honor in that third captain


and his 50 he said let the life of your


servant and the life of his men be


precious in your


sight. So he's not that one and P say go


and make Elijah for me there say yes too


much man of God come down here Elijah


say if I be a man of God you see that is


uh what we call psy of the spirit a a a


plot everything the thing follow so as


he said if that's why he answer sorry


let me not use


physics if that man of god come down I


say if I be so he complete the cycle


turn that fire you


there. So I'm just like to show you how


the real of the spirit work. That's why


it was easy for it to walk because that


word allowed triggered his emotion for


him to now speak. Just like when the


people were coming out just now before


we started this message and there were


some I didn't have to I just touched


them because it the psychute was already


the the flow is already going. So just


let it go. Let it go. Let it go. Go


shock everybody.


Let it so as he said if thou man of God


come say if thou man of God come if I be


a man of God. So so are you are you


getting it? Yes sir. Proper response. So


the second one the same the third one


now broke the say thou man of God let


the life not go again. not say fire


thunder let the life of my life of your


servant be precious in your sight that


the angel of the


lord now said fear not go with them so


baba now fear they kill all those


people because he didn't want to be


because didn't want to be arrested so it


was out of fear of what will happen to


him that he was


forces.


So, amen.


So, in this case, according to the word


of Elijah, so that shows you that


supernatural beings were involved.


According to the word of Elijah, I


showed you that in the prayer meeting on


Friday. Notice when he says, according


to the word of Elijah, Elijah prayed,


but supernatural beings were the ones


that made that rain not to fall for


three and a half years. And Elisha said


unto them, "This is not the way." Notice


again you see that it's in the spirit.


Oh, okay. Notice it. This communication


is how you talk when you are full. When


you are full of the spirit. So, let's


read it the way it


is. Smite these people. I pray you with


blindness. Be blind. All of you that are


trying to come against me and they were


all blinded and say this is not the way.


It is not me you seek. So why come? So


he's still in that flow.


Come now and I will show you who you


seek. It is the king you were looking


for, but yet you came looking for me.


Say, guide them. Lead


them to the king's


house. And the king of Israel said unto


Elisha, when he saw them, my father,


shall I smite them? Shall I smite them


as if he's a good man? And he answered,


"Thou shalt not smite them. Wouldest


thou smite those whom


thou those whom thou has taken captive


with thy sword and with thy bow? Set


bread and water before them." Now, so


these


ones that they may eat and drink and go


to their master and he prepared great


provisions for them. But when they


eating, did you get it?


So this


is


classic of what happens in the unseen.


Were the angels there all along


protecting Elijah?


But immedately he said, "Lord, open his


eyes that he may


see." Everything


changed. Lord, open his eyes that he may


see. Were the enemy still outside?


Was the soldier still surrounding Elisha


and the servant? Yes, sir. How come he


was not afraid again?


He saw. Yes sir.


If we live by sight, we will respond


differently.


Amen.


We will respond differently. So there's


an active spirit realm. There's an


active unseen realm. There's an active


realm of God and divine beings. There's


an active realm that houses just like


the earth inhabits human being. That's


how the heavenlies inhabit spirit


beings. Amen. Amen. And it is structured


like a house and a temple. Just like the


earth is structured like a house and a


temple. That's how the heaven the unseen


realm is structured like a house. And


there are


activities and we


must be conscious that God is with


us. His host is with


us. Amen. Amen.


So imagine Elisha did not


know but he knew the angel of the Lord


encamp round about them that fear him to


deliver them. Psalm 34:7 the Lord is


with


me. The Lord is with


me. I'm conscious of


that. That's the same way something is


trying to make you


restless. Open your eyes and see how the


outcome will be.


So I always tell people who are dealing


with issues that are overwhelming their


heart. I say why not look in the realm


of the spirit and confirm. I'll give you


an example of such. I've not been able


to have a child. No, no, no. When you


look at the future, do you see


children? Do you see how many do you


see? And say I saw three. You saw three.


That shows you're going to have a child.


So, calm down. All is well. Stop


thinking all is not well. And that's the


same thing. I have dealt with issues


that look overwhelming that should cause


fear. But I've seen the outcome. I've


said those stories with you just like


recently some airlines stopped people


from flying and said no, no, no, because


it's not safe. I've been in the air two


hours. That's there's no way you are


going in Nigeria that you should be in


the air for two hours. The plane


couldn't land. We had to go to potaco to


refill so that we can go then from go


back again. I mean everybody was


urinating going to use the rest room in


the in the as the plane is about to just


like this just you


just only the man of


God not praying no shouting not afraid


comforting the people around and telling


them the plane will land. I told them I


have a ministration that was Abuja super


activation. I say I have a meeting. I


had seen that somebody with fibroid I


would say to the person I've seen that


somebody with fibroid got healed in the


meeting. So if I ded how did the person


get healed? I was sure about the things


I have


seen pastor Sam and the rest use road to


come they first me it was that bad.


That's why I'm trying to tell it was


that bad. First the flight was delayed


everything I've been one before that one


where they said the landing gear and I


my response was it's not landing gear


that plane used to


land walk by inside


revelation plane crashes still happen


don't say foolish things like there's


nothing like


that but there was no fear there was no


fear no no panic no fear cuz I have


inside information what we see in the


realm of the spirit. The same thing


about a loved one and I saw two times in


fact that happened to loved ones like


that around me too. One I was like I was


praying I saw no it's not going to die


another I saw that oh the sickness will


leave. It didn't matter because I looked


into the person's future and I saw hail


hearty


wonderful there's no


issue. That is what eliminates fear. The


more we live with the consciousness of


the unseen realm. You look like the


things that are happening are not facing


you are not making you feel like it's


all over. It can never be over for me.


I walk by inside information. I walk by


inward revelation. Hallelujah.


Be conscious of the unseen realm.


Hallelujah.


Tell your neighbor, be conscious of the


unseen


realm cuz he's actively with you. And


it's not unseen realm like planet. No,


he's here. Were the supernatural beings


there with them? Was the supernatural


beings there with Elisha? Yes, sir.


Was were they where Elisha was? Thank


you.


I'm conscious of that everywhere I go.


I'm conscious of that. I'm conscious of


that. I'm conscious of that. I'm


conscious of that. I'm conscious of


that. I'm conscious of that. In


the late into the evenings, almost the


going towards the night, the vehicle


we're using, one of the first times I


was going to Mac broke down and pastor S


was with me and I said to him, "Relax.


We will get to Modi today and we still


get to the M today. Everywhere will be


safe.


Not too long we saw a vehicle and that


vehicle we didn't even know it was later


we now found that was being driven by a


police officer and he became the one I


was always using when I'm and all the


checkpoint on the road you just get


there they just remove it for him


everything easy and he knew how to drive


and it was fast and it was


safe and we use for subsequent times


I am not stranded.


[Music]


Once things begin to look like they're


against me, I step back and I I don't do


like I don't play like that. I don't I


don't No, no. I don't I don't live like


that. No, no, no. Learn how to step back


and check what's happening. What can


happen?


What I got there? I told him we will


still get there today because I saw that


we got to


Modi we will still get there. So if I


still got there then what am I


doing in the vehicle that we entered


from Abuja because there's no direct


flight.


Ha chattered vehicle. Okay. But no


problem we still get


there. Middle of nowhere. No. I'm never


in the middle of nowhere. I'm God is


always with me. I'm always I don't need


to know the area. I don't need to what


if something nothing there's nothing


that is coming out from anywhere.


God is with me. God is with me. God is


with me. God is with me. God is with me.


God is with me. I'm conscious of it. God


is with me. God is with me. God is with


me. I'm safe. I'm safe.


I've looked at. Oh, so will


the how would your future be? Look at


it. That's why me I'm always joyful and


happy because every time I look at the


future is bright. It's so bright.


Sometimes it's painting my eye. It


bright. Bright. It bright. It bright.


Road clear. No


police road clear. No road


block. When you look into the future,


what do you see? I see great


days. That's what I see. And it's not


it's not a nice word. I've seen it. So


many time when things are and is looking


like ah what is what still holds? I take


I've done too much.


Now Lord, I open my eyes and I and


that's why we're talking about the


unseen realm. At last, what shall I do?


No,


no. Here comes the divine


response. I'm conscious of


it. How will the days ahead be? I hear


what Yahweh said. I look at what is


happening. I'm never in panic and worry.


That's how Jesus lived. immediately said


we don't have enough say make them sit


then the Bible say he lifted up his eyes


into heaven that's looking to the unseen


that's how the bread multiply there is


always enough when we function from the


unseen there's always enough there's


always enough just like Jesus said when


they came to arrest he said I am he they


fail everywhere in scripture is loud


seeing the operation that there are


unseen


forces hallelujah


I am he. That's uh John


18:E6. They fell backward. Nobody pushed


them. What made them fall? I am


he. There's


something. Live life


conscious. Why? How did he hear that


blast and when he went back to his own


country? Just stop. Just how come the


footstep? We read that one on Wednesday.


2 Kings chapter 7 the footstep of those


lepers was amplified that they had


chariot horses. The Egyptians have the


the Israelites have gone to borrow army


but not borrow any army. It was four


lepers that were walking into the camp


and people left all their goods all


their items and


ran. The power of God is working for me


and I'm conscious of it and I'm


appropriating it into my life and every


aspect of my living. No fear here. Stand


on your feet. Lift your hands and just


thank


him. I'm not


disadvantaged. I'm not


disadvantaged. I'm not


disadvantaged. I lift my eyes and look


at the future. I lift my eyes and I I


look at the days to come. And that's why


you must learn how to see and know. must


learn how


to that's why it's not by all those


things are not important I just love my


Jesus no learn how to see in the spirit


it's important actively so that you can


be in you can be calm you can be in


peace because you're not being calm is


not changing the problem


the welding hole you check anything that


is oh it


held how do you think I'm able to tell


you I see basket for many so many time


and sometimes I'm laying hands on you


because I touched you I saw it that they


were still bringing gift to your house


after the marriage it's the same thing


that's the same way you would have known


that no this thing it will work oh s it


will work it will work it will work amen


no fear


thank you Jesus Jesus. Go ahead and just


thank him. Yeah. Thank you, Jesus.


Bro,


don't shut up.