Amen. Father, we thank you this evening,


Lord. We open our hearts to your spirit.


And we trust again that in this service,


the eyes of our understanding will be


flooded with light. We leave here with a


greater understanding of your word, your


will, and your plan. Even again, as we


study on unseen forces, we learn how to


be wise and strong with your power. And


the things of the spirit are real and


tangible to us. And we live with that


knowledge and revelation in the name of


Jesus. In this service again, we declare


the things that ought to be said will be


said. The things that ought not to be


said will not be said. The things that


ought to be done will be done. The


things that ought not to be done will


not be done to the praise and glory of


your name. We declare we are edified,


built up, transformed by the power of


your word. And our lives are open to the


wonder working power for healings,


miracles, deliverances in the name of


Jesus. Amen. Amen. God bless you. Have


your


seats. Amen. Colossians chapter 1 and we


will begin from that text of scripture.


Colossians chapter


1. Colossians chapter 1.


Are you


there? Colossians chapter 1. Colossians


is just after


Philippians and we'll read from verse


13. Who had delivered us from the powers


of darkness. Underline the word powers


of darkness. That's unseen forces that


are negative and against you. He says we


have already been delivered from them.


So we have nothing to do with darkness


and has translated us into the kingdom


of his dear son. I have been translated


into the kingdom of God's dear son. I


have been translated. I have moved from


one kingdom to another. I am not a child


of the devil. I'm a child of God.


Hallelujah. Verse 14. In whom we have


redemption through his blood, even the


forgiveness of sins.


We have not going to have but we have.


Then in verse 15 he says who is the


image of the invisible God? Who is the


image of the invisible God? Who is the


image of the invisible God? The


firstborn of every creature. Who is the


image? He calls Jesus the image. the


image the image of the of the invisible


God. Now let's take a look at this


because uh just read and the firstborn


of every creature. What does this word


mean? Because this word have a


supernatural worldview. The word image


the word firstborn is a supernatural


context word. Verse 16 it says for by


him were all things created that are in


heaven that are in the earth. So heaven


and earth, the unseen and the seen world


were created by God. And this God here,


he says, is Jesus Christ. That's why we


always emphasize Jesus is is God. It's


not is not God, but really like God. No,


he's God. Jesus is God. For by him were


all things created that are in heaven,


that are in the earth, visible and


invisible, whether they be thrones or


dominion, principality or power. All


things were created by him and for him.


All things were created by him and for


him. All things were created by him and


for him. So the word image is from the


Greek word icon. E I K O N is the word


which refers to the figure, the likeness


of a thing. What we will call the


replica or assemblance of a


thing. Remember Jesus in Matthew 22:20


asked them whose image and


superscription is this? And he said it


is Caesar. And he says render unto


Caesar what belongs to Caesar and unto


God belong to God. In other words, your


money belongs to Caesar but your soul


belongs to God. So you know what to give


Caesar. Uh you know what to give God. So


the coin is Caesar but your life, your


heart, your worship is God. Amen. uh I


will explain that over the years


but that was Matthew 22 verse 20 the


same thing in Luke 20:24 and in Hebrews


1:3 he uses that same word image


again because uh most people use that


word that word image there is


contradictory it can be used to disprove


the deity of God because he say the


image of so there is God then Jesus is


just an image of God. It's just an image


of God. So it's just a representation.


Then they now use Genesis 1:26. Man is


also an image of God. Is man God and


say, "Yeah, yeah, I get it." No, we


don't really get it because image of the


invisible God. Now the words he said


afterward should have showed the kind of


image that he was. Now, Hebrews 1:3 now


went a bit further and changed the word.


Instead of using the Greek word icon,


uses a


word called character. C H A R O A K T E


R Hebrews 1:3. Who being the brightness


of his glory? So, it says if God has any


glory that is shining forth, it is


Jesus. He say he is the brightness, the


fulgence, the the the thing that causes


the shine. What you say it is rated this


what? It is rated this. It is Jesus that


is the brightness of the glory. It's the


So if God has any glory that is shining


is Jesus. Ah that's frightening. It


almost removes God completely from the


picture. Yeah. Because you should


because in the worship you must have an


image


perspective. So people bring in an image


so that they can worship. So it tells


you understand that Jesus is the God we


worship because that is that


relatability of God. God in tangibility


or or in that visibility that you can


see we can touch is always going to be


communicated and expressed as Jesus


right from Genesis to Malachi to Matthew


to uh revelation is that same focus. So


he says the brightness of his glory.


Then he uses the word the express image


which is the word the exact


copy. So two words are communicated with


the word image which is the


representation of a thing or the


exactness.


Now 2 Corinthians 4 uses the same idea


verse 4-6 when he say let the light of


the glorious gospel of Christ who is the


image of


God. So he calls Jesus the image of


God. Then in verse six he refer to the


light of the knowledge of the glory of


the Lord that he shines in the face.


Now he brings in the word face to help


clarify what is what is implying by


image. So I'm trying to show you how


when those are the three references in


the New Testament books as we call the


New Testament books the Greek text of


the Bible that uses calls Jesus image of


God. Second Corinthians 4, Colossians


1:15 and Hebrews 1:3. Notice what the


other two does. 2 Corinthians 4 says


image of God. Then it says the face


of Colossians says image of the


invisible God. Now those other


expressions that they are using is the


very reason why you cannot say is just


like me cuz they added other but the


Hebrews 1:3 now is the greatest of them


all because that one the word he uses


there is not I have a picture of God.


This is God himself representing


himself. So he uses that's why I say


express image the exact there's no


difference. It's not he's trying to look


like God is behaving like God. No this


is God behaving himself as a man. This


is God himself behaving living


acting showing himself forth as a man.


That is express image he uses there


which is the word character.


So in commissions 4 when now says in the


face of Jesus Christ that word face was


employed to depict a person's a person's


presence or


appearance. So it says the knowledge of


the glory of God is in the person is in


the appearance is in the person of Jesus


Christ. The glory of God is in the


person is in the appearance of Jesus.


That's why I say we


behead his glory. The glory as of the


only begotten because that's the glory


of God that has ever shown from Genesis


to


Malachi. The the glory as of full of


grace and through John chapter one we


behead his glory. The glory as of the


only begotten because that glory is in


the face of Jesus Christ. We now saw


that glory as a man as a person. Amen.


Hallelujah. So the word face which is


the same thing in the Hebrew panim


Exodus 33:18 where he says I will show


you my face for thou cannot see my face


for no man can see my face and leave now


that is his


face that is his face where he say no


man can see my face this is his face


Jesus is that face of God the glory of


God is in the person the appearance of


Jesus amen


hallelujah


so when John 1:14 The word was made


flesh that among God will be his glory.


That is it. It's the same idea in 1 John


1 verse 1-2 when he says that which was


from the beginning which we have heard


which we have seen with our eyes which


we have looked upon our hands have


handled of the word of life for the life


was manifested we have seen it and bear


witness and show unto the eternal life


which was with the father was manifested


to us. So notice how John writes we


beheld his glory. We have heard we have


seen we have looked our hands have


handled. So that is Jesus in his


humanity. Abby, but he makes it loud


that that is the image of God. Not a


representation or a semblance, but an


exactness in being God himself. So it's


God himself who became a man. Not a man


looking like God. Not a man representing


God. Genesis 1:26 is a man representing


God.


Are you getting it? Yes, sir. 2


Corinthians 4, Colossians 1:15. It is


God as a man. There's a difference. Man


representing God. God in representation


as a man. God himself in visibility as a


man. So God is now making himself


visible, transparent, tangible. I don't


can be seen, can be heard, can be


touched, can be felt. That is the image


there. So don't mix the two when you


say, "Oh, I'm an image of God." Jesus


also an image of God. No, that is how


you were made. You were made


to represent


God. You were made to show him forth.


Just like the Matthew 5, let your light


so shine before men. Now that's how


we're made to image him, to represent


him. It's different when now says Jesus


is the image of God. So, and that was


what Adam and Eve failed in to now be


found because that would need faith to


now live as God's image because living


as God's image is done by faith. When


you say God made man as his image and


likeness but man has to be in his


image. Did you get that? Man has to be


in his image. Let us make man in our


image after our likeness. So the man


himself is image of God.


But in by


identity all humanity but we said all


humanity do not live as God's image


because living as God's image it's


because how you representing who is not


in you who you have not who you are not


worshiping and serving you won't worship


you won't reflect him properly. So faith


is now the entrance point to now being


able to live as God's man. That's why


that is called the failure of the first


creation. That's why a new creation was


sought after because the man that God


intended man to be is the man that


images God that and to image God you


have to worship and serve God. Amen.


So when he uses that word image of the


invisible God notice what he was doing


there. That God who is unseen we have


seen him. That's why it says image. The


image of invisible God. So it's not that


cannot be me and you. Are you following?


No. So the image of invisible God. That


God that looks invisible unseen from


Genesis to Malachi. This is exact not


somebody that is looking like him. This


is exactly him. If you were going to


draw him, you're going to touch him. You


say if you have touched Jesus, you have


that's why Jesus always kept correcting


them and say, "Have you been so long


with me? If you have seen me, you have


seen the father. Who else should they


look


for? Because this is the representation


of God. This is the image of God. How


can that not now be God? It's amazing


how because that's why they were told


not to make any graven image. So people


ask, oh should we I worship the father,


I don't worship the son. What is that?


What how is that? Where is the


intelligence there? I worship Jesus


Christ for God's sake. I worship the


father. I worship the son. I worship. If


that makes you sleep better at night


using father, son, spirit phrasing, no


problem. I worship God. And worshiping


God means I worship the father. I


worship the son. I worship the holy


spirit. If you use those expressions


used to explain God in his relationship


with man. Fine. So God is the father.


God is son. Because in him taking that


responsibility to show man exactly how


man should represent him. He becomes a


man. He's in everyone at the same time


by his spirit. That's God. That's God.


That's God. So it's not about the form,


theory expression. No, it's about God in


person himself is in person as a father,


in person as a son, in person as a


spirit. Don't need to do just formal


expressions. No, in person. Get used to


the word person. That's why I like the


way they say God uh the person of the


person of I like


that Hallelujah cuz there's a


personality to the father the son and


the spirit in the scripture. So the


person


of


hallelujah we beheld his glory. We have


heard we have seen we have looked upon


we have handled. So that is the image


there. So it's the exactness that he's


dealing with. Did you get it? It's the


exactness that he's dealing with. He's


the exactness, the image of the


invisible God. Then he does goes further


and calls him the firstborn of every


creature, the


firstborn. Notice how firstborn is used


in Genesis


32:28. And he said, "Thy name shall be


called no more Jacob but Israel for as a


prince that has power with God." So the


concept of names are important. Then we


now have that same Israel.


Now in Exodus 4:22, write just write the


references down for firstborn. Exodus


4:22. He said, "Thou shalt say unto


Pharaoh,


thrael is my son, even my first born."


Now are you going to take that literally


by bet or there's an office Israel is to


function? Of course an office Israel is


supposed to function. All


right.


Uh then the whole concept of


firstborn


where you if you are actually reading


the Bible you see how firstborn was


used


that Cain is first but Abel is first


born Ishmael is first born as it were by


birth but he's not first born by office.


Isaac is


Esau is firstborn by birth. But so you


already if you are reading the Bible,


you already seen how they are already


using the word firstborn. So it mustn't


have just a biological meaning. Again,


that's because of their language and


their world view when they use the word


[Music]


firstborn. That which continues the


lineage of the father. So it's always


going to be a a function. So I have


given birth to that which prolongs my


day. I have given birth to that which


continues my day. I've which prolong my


day. I've given birth to that which so I


shall live forever. My works shall be


seen forever because I have


him who continues


me. Are you following? That's the


concept of firstborn in their language


and all of that.


Uh Genesis


43. Genesis 43:33.


And they sat before him. Now this is the


contest of Joseph just to get a bit


back. And when Joseph came home, verse


26, they brought him the present which


was in their hand into the house and


bowed bowed themselves to him to the


earth. And he asked them of their


welfare and said, "Is your father well?


The old man of whom you spake of is he


yet alive?" And they answered, "Thy


servant, our father is in good health.


He's yet alive." And they bowed down


their heads and made obeisance. And he


lifted up his eyes and saw his brother


Benjamin, his mother's son, and said,


"Is this your younger brother?"


Remember, he was it was not he had not


revealed himself to


them. Is this your younger brother of


whom you spake unto me? And he said,


"Yes, God be gracious unto thee, my


son." And Joseph


made and Joseph made hast, for his boers


did y upon his brother, and he sought


where to weep. And he entered into his


chambers and wept. And he washed his


face, and went out again, and refrained


himself, and said, "Set on bread." And


they set on for him by himself, and for


them by themselves, and for the


Egyptians, which did eat with him by


themselves. Because the Egyptians might


not eat bread with the Hebrew, for that


is an abomination unto the Egyptians.


And they sat before him, the


firstborn according to his birthright,


and the youngest according to his youth.


Now those are words you must get used


to. The the words in the Hebrew are


stronger.


Beor the word be is firstborn. The word


bet right there is the word bea. The


right of the firstborn. That's exactly


what it means. So there is a phrase like


that.


So the firstborn right is contrary to


how men choose. The biblical firstborn


right is different from how men choose.


Men choose as a function of the order of


their birth. Why? God's choice is by


faith in the


promise because if not a Cain would have


been the firstborn but Cain did


not did not serve God's purpose on the


earth. to


Abel. Esau did not. In fact, Esau said,


"What is my bet right?" So, are you


seeing it? So, the betright was now


Jacob's because Esau said his betright


is rubbish. He call it


profane. What is my bet right to me?


Away with


this. Did you get it? So, there is two


concepts of firstborn in the Bible. The


first born that is by bet and the first


born that is by


office. So the right of the firstborn


was given to who? Isaac, not Ishmael.


The right of the firstborn was given to


Jacob, not Esau. The right of the


firstborn was given to Joseph. You will


see that when Jacob is now praying,


Reuben is the biological firstborn. So


see that it's not a mistake. Even Jacob


himself know or Israel himself know that


Reuben is his firstborn where he's


blessing his


children. Genesis 49, Reuben, thou art


my firstborn. That's


biological. My might and the beginning


of my strength. Notice those words.


Firstborn, beginning of my strength.


Firstborn, beginning. You see those


words just now in Colossians. Firstborn,


then beginning, the beginning of. So you


see how those words have


meaning. Thou are my firstborn, my


might, the beginning of my strength.


So look at


48. Genesis 48. When Joseph brought his


children for Jacob to pray


for Jose uh Jacob laid his right hand on


the head of Ephra.


He wanted his father to put the right


hand on Manace because it was Manasse


and Ephraim. Manise was the firstborn by


Beth. But Jacob in laying hands crossed


his hands like this because Joseph


brought his children head on. But he


said no, he too shall be great. But the


man was talking based on vision that


this is firstborn by so it's not within


the same place where they are doing


firstborn by birth. There was also


firstborn by office. that this one is


the real one that will continue your


lineage as God's prophet. You will


continue God's work on the earth. You


will function on the earth as God's


prophet, as God's priest. So it is not


Ishma, it is Isaac who will continue the


days of Abraham being God's prophet,


priest and king on the earth. It is not


so that right of the firstborn. So


there's how they use the word firstborn


then they use the word betright. Did you


get


it? So all those


words and he blessed them that day


saying in thee shall Israel bless saying


God made thee like Ephraim and as mana


say and he set Ephraim before mana said


and Israel said unto Joseph before I die


but God shall be with you and bring you


again. Then look at what he now does in


verse 22. This was where he conferred on


Joseph. Then the next chapter he called


all the sons together and blessed all of


them from Reuben and also blessed Joseph


in their front but he had already given


Joseph the firstborn


blessing. Look at it. Moreover, I have


given to thee one


portion above thy bed. Now when you say


one portion above that bed because the


way they share bedright uh if they are


sharing inheritance for example let's


say


uh everybody sitting here now no


just we share one


one so I have something to share I give


him one I one one one one then I will


come back since he's the first I will


now give him another so we now have


double portion. That's the meaning of


double portion. So that double portion


is not give me two times as it were.


Give me two times anointing is that you


are now the firstborn over the rest.


That's what Elisha was eyeing.


I want to be the senior prophet. That's


why immediately they saw and they said


the spirit of Elisha of Elijah rest upon


Elisha. What did the son of the prophet


did? They bow because he's not the


because that is that is the double


portion. Not that we do times two


miracle that one mathematical counting


you are doing with you know how many


miracle Elijah Christian is that one


that they recorded now you know how many


miracles Elisha did you doing seven * 2


14 this one I did seven this one I did


14 is that how double double portion


work no that double portion is not


that's old testament now that Jesus


Christ I die I bury I be raised again


from the dead there's nothing like


double portion what are you Those words


have meaning. Don't be demonizing


Genesis to


Malachi. The words they have meaning. So


the double portion is simply the right


of the firstborn. So he gave him a


portion above his


bed. So that's the firstborn language.


So notice how he says Israel is my son,


even my firstborn.


Did you get it? Now look at the text.


Psalm


89. Psalm


89. Psalm


89. And he shall cry unto me. Verse 20.


He says, "Thou art my father, my God,


and the rock of my salvation. Also, I


will make him my firstborn. higher than


the kings of the earth. My mercy will I


keep with him forever and my covenant


shall stand fast with him. His seed also


will I make to endure forever and his


throne as the days of


heaven. So I will make him my firstborn.


Notice that I will make


him. So notice that the firstborn in the


above text refers to functionality.


Abby so is is not ontology. It does not


relate to the being who came out first


from the mother's womb. No, it's not


that is not the being. It's not B I the


nature is not that. What is looking at


is the function. So that's why I say I


will make him notice what that now


higher than. So it's function. He's


using the word firstborn for


function. So that means he will be


what? Literal first child. No


preeminent. He will be the


chief. Did you get it? He will be the


firstborn. He will be the


chief. Is the same word that is used in


Psalm 2:6. Is the same historical


context where he's talking about the


Messiah. He's the firstborn. The true


David's son, the real


David who sits on David's throne, the


greater than David, the real David, the


real uh beloved son in whom I'm well


pleased. That though David was called


the beloved son. David is representing


him. He is David's son, but he's David's


Lord. That's why Jesus asks him if David


if he's David's son, how come David call


him Lord? So it's in prophecy. So that


is so you see the same context in Psalm


2. Yet I have set my king upon my holy.


I will declare the decree. The Lord has


said unto me, thou art my son. Thou art


my son. This day have I begotten thee.


He's already son. Why does he call him


son? His functionality. Ask of me and I


shall give thee the hidden for thine


inheritance. The uttermost part of the


head for thy


possession. So as a son, he is a hair.


Remember Hebrews


1, God who has appointed in this last


day spoken to us by his son in whom he


has appointed hair of all things by whom


also he made the word. Hebrews 1:2 the


verse three brightness of his glory but


he calls him hair of all things. So it's


again firstborn


language. So in Colossians


1:16 after he calls him in verse 15


image of the invisible God firstborn of


every creature.


Notice he now says that in all things he


might have prayer minutes. Is that in


line with firstborn functionality? Thank


you. Prayer mininess. So he calls Jesus


that


firstborn. Firstborn of every creature.


So now we can even go into the grammar.


Who is the image of the invisible God?


The word of there is


a is when you are using


of to explain that which is a part of.


We say partitive genative. You are


substantiating the article by saying


this is a part of this is the image of.


So that means there are other


images the the grammar is intelligent


the use of words because man is also


image of God. So image of by using


because there are other people who image


God but this one is the image of the


invisible God. That's why at the first B


we realize that he's not


like like us but greater than us because


he is God who became a man. Philippians


2


who so a piece of the pie that's a part


of so the incarnation Jesus became a by


the incarnation Jesus became a part of


creation but it does not in any way


negate his


preexistence you get so Jesus is a part


of creation say sir why are you taking


all your time to explain this we don't


really matter no we matter if you jump


AWU they will explain this thing for you


and try to use even the grammar as if we


are all in as if we don't have the


original language before us too. No,


that's not what he's saying. So he say


firstborn of every creature. So Jesus


was the first that God created. No,


don't be stupid. That's not what it's


not is function because firstborn in the


Bible has more than one


application. Are you following? So you


say oh Jesus was the first. So Jesus is


a man. He's not God. He was the first


thing that God created. No, that's not


what the writer is explaining. So, allow


us do some study this evening. Is that


okay? I promised you on Sunday we're


going to do some study. So, he's the


image of the invisible


God. So, when he now says by him were


all things


created. So, if he's a part of


creation and not the creator, then how


is he all things were not created by


him? It makes no sense. So that's why he


selects his


words. So those five verses are very uh


from Colossians


1:15 to 20. Those five verses are the


some of the strongest verses that


explains the preminence of Christ and


I've stuck with them in every of our


write up since 2012 since the ministry


began using to explain the preminence of


Christ the eternal purpose of God


because it's one of the


loudest those seven all things in Christ


ah you cannot you cannot explain you


can't remove those words and now have a


god no that is


God then what is God now doing if Jesus


have done all of those things if all of


those things are Jesus Christ. Are you


getting it?


Mhm. So by him were all things created


so it will not be plausible if he's a


part of creation. No. So Jesus is


distinguished from the


creation by his pre-existence as God and


he's now also a part of creation as his


what function because of what he came to


do. He was born for a reason. the child


shall be called. So, but does not negate


his pre-existence. That's why we call it


the incarnation. God became a


man. Did you get it? If the man is God


became Jesus, God became a man. So, the


idea sinks


in. Hallelujah. So that Jesus is the


replica, the representation. So when he


says image of the invisible God, what he


had in mind is the exactness


That's why he change us and say the


firstborn, the one who is preeminent


over every creature. That every creature


was supposed to shine forth. That is how


they are supposed to be shining. That's


what they are supposed to be reflecting.


That is who became a


man. Exactly what man is supposed to be


showing forth is what is now working


among us. Are you saying firstborn


preeminent higher than so he goes


further and now say okay for by him so


because so in case they don't understand


what the firstborn of every creature


notice the colon the translators


understand that though sometimes we


don't take the their use of punctuation


marks seriously however they got it


right here then I say because by him


that's what is explain firstborn they


higher than the kings of the


earth remember


Now the Psalm 89 higher than the kings


of the


earth when he say I will make him my


firstborn higher than higher than a


language of


prayermininess. So he's the image of the


invisible


God. Clear


clear. Then look at verse 18. He says,


"For he is the head of the body." Notice


he repeats the word firstborn again.


Head of the


body. Head of the body. The church.


That's the body. Who is the beginning?


So it says Jesus is the beginning, the


firstborn from the dead. Are you saying


beginning and firstborn? My first born,


beginning of my strength. Know how the


word beginning is used


alongside. Now the word beginning there


is the word


ar a r c h e the word he uses there for


beginning funny enough is the same word


for principality that I told you to


write down when we're doing those


studies some weeks back right or


Wednesday princ I think that was last


week Wednesday by the way principality


power I told you to write those what


they write them in the the Greek words


for them too so we had thrones dominion


principality


as in Colossians 1:16. So he now says,


"Who is the beginning? Who is the


aray? Who is the principality? The


firstborn from the dead, that in all


things he might have preeminence."


So the way he uses it here when he say


who is the


beginning it's the


word in Acts


10:11 will come in Acts 10:11 says as it


had been a great sheet clean at the four


corners corners c o r n e r s that Word


ar is used there is the word used as


first is the word used as principality


is the word used as rule in first 15 24


we have read it already in the course of


this series now that word we have not


read is the use of that word as a corner


c o r n why does he call because what


I'm doing for you is what we call


enmology of a word why how you are not


able to give many definitions to a word


if you know the root then you can see


where every word de deviates into other


expressions


All right. Now that word A R C H E is


used for beginning, is used for power,


is used for mag, magistrate, used for


principality, used for


rule is now used in this Acts 10 11 and


Acts 11:E5. Two times where that story


was repeated is repeated again. Acts 11


where Peter is recounting what happened


where he had that trance and he saw


those forooted beasts arise, kill, and


eat. That's chapter 10. He repeated the


story in chapter 11 and it's used for


corner and if you look at that at the


four corner it was led down the corners


those four corners are to hold together


the box as it were that the animals were


inside. So it will hold it together. So


the use of the word corner is that which


hold it together. That's why it says the


beginning is that's why uh when you are


building you lay foundation. Foundation


is at the beginning. Are you getting the


context? So when it says the beginning


is the foundation. This is what we are


looking for. So the same meaning you


have in Genesis 1 verse one because that


is the foundation of the world story


when he says from the foundation of the


world. That is the foundation of the


world. Genesis one in the beginning


created the heaven and the earth. That


is the founding. Then he said the end of


the world another Greek word sentia the


completion the consumation. So we have


finished the house. we can now move in.


So you know the world has come to an end


when all the earth is hidden then man


can now live the way God intended the


whole world to be. So he uses a building


language foundation of the word end of


the world foundation is we have just


begun the proc the project we have


consume end of the world we have


consumated the project so all of you


interior decoration people once you have


finished everything after you have the


builders have built the people can leave


in we have finished the work so enter


and


leave all the earth is now hidden that


is the end of the But that's why it


begins when you finish the house. You


don't finish the house like you just


say, "Wow, I finished my house." Well,


you have finished your house, you live


in it. So the end of the world does not


mean the word literally is not going to


exist again. That's why words have


meaning. End of the world means the


project is finally complete. So now it


can be as it was made to be. Right now


the church is


complete that we have the spirit of God.


We are now the new creation. But all the


earth is not yet the new creation. When


that is complete then we can


live. So the end of the world does not


mean the word is not continuing. That's


why we're saying what is that word? When


you say end of the


world, the words without end. That's


this cosmology. The heaven and earth


cosmology has no end. Ephesians theory.


We've said that again and again. But


people forget so because they are


written in


English. The word is coming to end


coming to an end. God is tired of this


word. No that's not what end means.


That's not what end


mean of the word. No he wants to finish


his project. You know they do


uncompleted house since


creation. Ephesians 3 verse 2021. Now


unto him that is able to do exceedingly


abundantly above all we can ask or think


according to the power that workketh in


us. So there's a power at work in me.


Unto him be glory in the church by


Christ Jesus throughout all


world without that is it world without


end. The world has no end. So he uses


different words for that world without


will that


end. Did you get it? World without end.


So what


God the ages the aons are without end.


So that say oh the the period of time is


not coming to an end that there will now


be no period again. There's still a


period because when what are where we


are all with the Lord? So what is that


now called? Is that not which world are


we not living? So we're not living


anywhere. We are just in heaven. What is


this? That's not how the biblical story


ends now. New Jerusalem coming down. We


are here with the Lord. That existence


does not come to an end. So when you


have stupid rapture teachings that shows


like the world is coming to an end, it's


not biblical. It's if I you do a lot of


proof texting to have that idea first.


You see how porous those rapture


teachings are. People are pulling their


clothes, their clothes are dropping.


That's is those movies left behind and


co that have done more damage to the


body of Christ because before those


movies, those ideas were not so popular.


The rapual theology was not so popular


until those movies thanks make things


popular. Songs makes things


popular. It was those beliefs were only


held by three denominations across the


body of Christ. But after that movie,


other denominations began to buy into


that idea of a world coming to an end.


Then three and a half years, three and a


half years, even see some pastors so


confused today to conspiracy theories


saying all manner of calculating actual


is 2027. Are you that daff with the


Bible? How can the world come to end in


2030? Which word is coming to 2030? Not


the one me I'm living in.


You say you people like the word too


much. What's like the word? What has


that to do with liking the


word? I mean I'm just wondering for that


man how he will feel when by 2030 I said


we kiss him say maybe drink poison and


die because me I can I take it to the


bank Jesus will not come before


2030 cuz that idea you have of coming is


even


wrong say now they pre there are those


that will be saved by their blood don't


you think does not make a mockery of the


death of Jesus they saved from what by


which blood by what they are suffering.


You will build no text in Genesis to


Jude. You just enter


revelation from from visions and images.


You just started concing a doctrine


together and it's so


exact. You say there is the antichrist.


No, he say the spirit of the


antichrist. That same John say


antichrist. That same John say spirit of


the antichrist. You have decided that


all of it has to be sp there's now an


actual antichrist that is coming one


personality that will rival


Jesus because that what are you doing no


other writer in scripture wrote about it


because they are all


daff and you establish a doctrine on


that


basis and we should take you seriously


say is escathology know these things are


complicated it's not complicated your


ignorance is complicated


The Genesis to America is loud on end of


the word. That's why it's called the day


of the Lord. It's not something you can


just read in Revelation, just make it


up. There's too many. In fact, it's the


loudest theme in the Bible. I've been


telling you


before the loudest theme in the Bible is


salvation, the day of the Lord. They all


taught


together. So when you have that idea,


they are not reference, they are


references. Oh, there are references.


Where? Which book was John reading? You


think John had his book of revelation to


write revelation? Which book did John


use to which which book did Paul have


that allows you have a proper


understanding of esquetology the right


way? Amen.


It shall come to pass in the last days.


That is biblical esquetology. So they


all spoke about last days. What is


happening in the last days? What is


happening the last


time? So the world without end. Pay


attention. know


because when I now get to the word to


come you now sleep off say I wish I


understood what he was saying then you


should understood what I was saying I


was teaching you I did not think you


will not take me seriously you are


waiting for when I will be serious I'm


already


serious world without end that God


created is a world without


end is a world without


that's the world that God created


said, "The world is not coming to an


end." Isaiah


45 verse1


17, "But Israel shall be saved in the


Lord with an everlasting salvation. Ye


shall not be ashamed nor confounded.


World without


end. World without


end. World without end.


Psalm 90 verse 1 and 2. The prayer of


Moses the man of God. Lord, thou has


been our dwelling place in all


generations, in all periods of time.


Before the mountains were brought forth


orever thou has formed the earth, the


world even from everlasting to


everlasting. That is not how something


to end. Everlasting to everlasting that


showing you that is continuing is an


everlasting to everlasting


world. Amen. So like we said, what is he


removing in the destruction of the


heaven and the earth? Is the destruction


of the sinner, Satan, sin, death,


everything is not plans. is removing


from his world. So the biblical


cosmology of heaven and earth we abide


forever. So what is removing is that


hell that came in and every other thing


that he did not plant is what is


removing not that is removing the world.


So what where are we going to now live?


Say in heaven. So how how is heaven and


earth now being destroyed? Say no it's


not that heaven. So which heaven? So we


are in heaven but heaven and earth is


being destroyed. So which heaven? Say


no. Theology will make you look like you


did not go to school.


We are in heaven but okay heaven earth


is being stressed so where are we going


to be and we are


somewhere where is that place called


somewhere oh from a garden to a


garden I'm going to teach you this for 5


years this thatatic concept I'm staying


around it for the global eden concept


I've been doing that for for two years


now


uh teaching around that phrase is so


that because if you which is mastery of


God's plan and purpose cuz that's what


we live for. That's we understand why


God created it. What am I ever living


for? You're not living here for just


acquisitions. Acquisitions are vanity up


vanity. All is vanity. That's there's


more to existence. There's more to the


meaning of life than just having money,


wife, children,


husband, pleasures. There's more to life


than that. That's why my life must count


for that. If not, it's a


waste. Amen.


Hallelujah.


Forever and ever.


Luke


18 verse 30 who shall not receive


manifold more in this present time and


in the world to come life everlasting.


So there is a world to come. So but it's


still called world. Are you seeing it?


Some people now don't want to be called


world again. That's what I'm trying to


emphasize. You notice that it's still


world. So is there are simply three


periods of time.


time past, the present time, and the


world to come. The time to come. That's


the theory timeline you have in the


Bible. The time past which can be called


the foundation of the


world. Are you getting


it? Foundation of the world, the


beginning of the world since the


beginning of creation. Different phrases


are used for


it. Then you now have this present time.


Then you have the world to come. And


this present time is all end of the


world because the end of the world is


now split into the two that two


part the present time


and because they are all interconnected.


So you see so for sake of easy teaching


we do time past, present time, time to


come. Easy teaching. Abi when they


use a single phrase beginning of the


word end of the word but when you open


up that end of the word you will see


many periods of time which we can call


this present time and the world to come


depending on your use of the word


end nothing confusing with the English


I'm speaking so it should be the same


thing you are hearing and that is the


understanding except you're arguing your


mind that is the understanding so many


time when people say they don't


understand is that they not hearing they


already conflicting because I'm not the


one that confused you before. That's why


I'm using simple English that even my


children understand it. If I teach this


thing, they understand what I'm saying.


It's English you can hear.


Amen. So say world to come life


everlasting. So which world are you


going to live for everlasting to


everlasting? Which thy eternal life?


Which which place are you going to be


living that eternal


life? Th everlasting in heaven. Okay.


Because so what now happened to the


earth? So there will be no more earth.


Say no sir. You know you can't say that


because every place that said no more is


heaven and earth for the first has


passed away. There's no place where you


have singular no more earth no more. No


is the two together. Because which


heaven does God not want again? The


heaven that spiritual wickedness reside.


The heaven that is filled with dark


forces. The heaven of uncleanness. The


heavens that are not pure is what is


removing to have only the heavens that


are pure. Which earth is he removing?


The earth that is not pure. The earth


that is corrupt. Are you


following? Not that there will be no


more uh the world of time and space will


no longer exist. I know now it will


exist. This world of embodiment is


forever. God made the word of


embodiment as much as he made the word


of disembodiment. The spirit


word inhabitants of the spirit world


disembodied spirit. That's God that make


that word also made a word of embodiment


and he made the word of embodiment to


rule over the other in the sense of that


everybody is concerned about this word


of embodiment because God made man to


dwell with man is God made man for that


embodiment. So the sin and the unseen


are now function together. So the unseen


is made in a manner that it can be made


embodied. Angels are unseen creature but


they can appear as a man because both


were made for each other. The seen and


the unseen all in that tangibility


visibility relationship that is the


order of things and God is not changing


that. Amen.


So the wall to


come Ephesians 1:21 far above all


principality, power, might and dominion,


and every name that is named, not only


in this world, but also in that which is


to come. So there is a world to come.


There's a world to


come. There's a world to


come.


Hallelujah. There's a world to


come. Matthew 12 31:32. Wherefore I say


unto you, all manner of sin, even


blasphemy, not two separate things, sin


that is blasphemy shall be forgiven. sin


even unto sin even unto blasphemy


because blasphemy is also sin it's not


like sin then there's blasphemy so what


is blasphemy now not is sin the and


there's two functions of and is


conjunctive or


culative so it's a conjunction so the


conjunction can be


corulative where you couple two


things but God and father Lord Jesus


Christ. It's not that there is God then


there is father of Lord Jesus Christ.


Now the same person God that is father


of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. So and


which is the old English we use even e


ven which is the Greek word kai


even.


So it's cumulative and culative. So you


are adding things this and this and this


accumulate it. Then it's also culative


to join it.


So wherefore I say unto you all manner


of sin and blasphemy. So that's


copulative joining them together shall


be forgiven unto men. So that means


there is no sin that God does not


forgive. Then he now says but the


blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall


not be forgiven unto men. And I told you


what that mean. What sin is this? The


sin of you not believing your sins can


be forgiven. The sin of you rejecting


the forgiveness of sin. The sin of you


saying I'm not doing I don't want to


accept Jesus as my Lord. I don't want to


make Jesus my Lord. Is that sin? Amen.


The sin of rejecting the sacrifice of


Jesus. The sin of not accepting what


Jesus has done. Did you get it? Yes,


sir. is that sin that he's talking


about of rejecting the sacrifice of of


Jesus of mocking it of blasphemy to hell


with Jesus Christ save me die for I'm


rejecting what saves me I'm saying to


hell with forgiveness of sin so what


does that mean I want to remain the way


I am that sin cannot be forgiven because


what the person is rejecting is the


forgiveness of


sin amen Amen. Amen.


And whosoever speaks a word against the


son of man, he shall be forgiven him.


But whosoever speaketh against the holy


ghost. So what is saying the holy ghost


because that holy ghost that is the


spirit of regeneration is how that's


when he say speak a word speaking


against that regeneration that new birth


that transformation because no one can


see just lord but by the holy ghost. So


when he say speak a word against the


holy ghost he's speaking


against how a man is saved. And I'm


saying I I don't want I don't


want. Whosoever speaketh against the


Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven


him, neither in this world, neither in


the world to come. So there is a world


to come. Did you get it? World to


come. Matthew 24 and verse 14. And this


gospel of the kingdom shall be preached


in all the world. This gospel of the


kingdom shall be preached in all the


world for a witness. Now all the world


here is the inhabited earth. So every


person the inhabited the inhabitants of


the earth every person on the earth


should be made to know the


gospel in all the world. for a witness


unto all nations. And then shall the end


come. See how uses the word end. Then


shall the end


come. Did you get it? End of the world.


So the first time you see that word end


of the word was Matthew 13:39 where


Jesus was putting forth the parable of


the


swer the parable of the seed all all the


parables Matthew 13 had c seed so he say


he that sweth the good seed is the son


of man 38 the field is the


world the field is the world the


cosmos the Good seed are the children of


the kingdom but the tars are the


children of the wicked. The enemy that


sold them is the devil. The harvest you


see what he's calling end. The harvest


is the end of the world. Does that look


like when you have harvested that is the


end? You you don't eat anymore. Once you


harvest you don't eat that's when you


now eat. Now thank you. So when you read


the use of the word


endia we have completed the project. So


now we can enjoy the world is as it was


made to be. Now comes a new beginning.


That's why we say new creation, new


beginning. That's why Isaiah keeps using


the word a new beginning. I will do a


new thing. I'll do a new thing. That is


now new beginnings for the whole world.


Right now the man in Christ has a new


beginning in Christ when he got born


again. But all the earth have not gotten


their new beginning yet. The is to come.


Ass have come already. But we do not yet


see all things. So for us we have not


seen the


fullness. That's what the coming of the


Lord is


for. So that in that fullness we too can


put on amen put on immortality. No


different between us and him. Then we in


that same the Romans 8 the whole


creation also joins in that glorious


liberty of the sons of God. So what is


happening to us is happening to all the


earth. All the earth is made a new.


Amen.


So that is the teaching. The field is


the world. The good seed and the


children of the kingdom say the enemy


that sowed them is the devil. The


harvest is the end of the world and the


reapers are the


angels. As therefore the th shall be


gathered and burnt in the fire. So shall


it be in the end of the world.


Consumation the entire


completion. Then he now changes the word


for world. Here he uses the word


aon period of


time. Did you get


it? So Matthew 13:39 end of the world


sailia used in 39 40 use again in verse


49 of the same Matthew 13. So shall it


be at the end of the world.


Aon in Matthew 24:3 they asked Jesus a


question and he sat upon Mount the


disciples came onto him privately saying


tell us when shall these things be


that's the very first scene and that's


the one people miss out because


escathology signs of these things be


what was the very first scene disciples


went out and departed from the temple


and his disciples came to him to show


him the buildings of the temple


Matthew 24:1, the buildings of the


temple. And Jesus said unto them, see ye


not all these things. Verily I say unto


you, there shall not be left here one


stone upon another that shall not be


thrown down. So there was a context of


the literal physical temple. The temp


the temple of Solomon that was rebuked


that Bible said my hand will complete


this thing that you see in the Hag and


the rest where they rebuked that temple


of Solomon. That temple is what he's


saying is being destroyed. It shall be


thrown down. And his disciples came to


him privately and said, "Tell us when


shall be the signs of these things." But


your favorite esquetology preachers


forget that. So they turn this. So there


are theories of rapture. Two shall be,


one shall be taken. The one that is


taken is not taking to go and be killed.


You are now wanting to be the one that


is taken. The one that is taking in the


story is the one that that is going to


die. You say Lord Lord Lord take


me. It's just again this is same failure


of


grammar because they don't read from the


very first chapter because there were


three questions that they asked him


there. You just model everything.


Everything is about the word coming to


an end. The word is coming to an end.


The word is coming to an end. Pray that


your flight be winter. Yeah. Your


flight, your running, your escape. Are


you going to run and escape dying? You


cannot run and run away from damnation.


Sorry. You cannot the jackpa from


damination. You say book my flight. Book


my flight. Yeah. Booking flight to run.


You say for win everywhere is cold. You


know fear escape where they will catch


you. Is that that already shows you that


that's not there's nothing spiritual


about that. And this came to pass in


AD.70 where General Titus marched into


Jerusalem and destroyed Jerusalem and


most especially the temple. It came to


pass what Jesus said was going to


happen. So they were don't model all the


signs together and call everything one


because three questions were asked


there. That is proper Bible


reading. Amen. So look at it again and


see if I said anything strange.


And as he sat upon the mount of all his


disciples came unto him privately saying


tell us when shall


these we went to school. What does this


that means he has said it


before where did you see end of the word


in the first two


verses. So you must start from that


those events. When shall these things be


this throwing down of the temple


wall that's the very first thing. When


shall these things be? Then he now says,


"And what shall be the sign of thy


coming?" Are you seeing it? Sign of thy


coming even of the end of the world. He


uses the same wordia which in their mind


remember they understand the word in


their in their language. They are not


seeing it as there's not going to be no


more word. When are you going to


complete this whole project? Because


it's in the same order you are throwing


things down. Just like say this temple


is thrown down. So when are you going to


throw down this temple this heaven and


earth temple so that we can have a new


temple which is the global


eden is all brought together because


that is the word I told you before they


have when they one of the meanings I


said this on Sunday one of the


application of the word heaven is the


temple. So everything is brought


together because he's talking about


physical temple just like the earth


heaven and earth together is a a temple


story. Okay. So the new


[Music]


temple that endure to the end shall be


saved. You I pray you endure to the end.


Listen don't model things up. Is it is


it endurance that get you born


again? What is what a foolish way of


reading Bible? Now always read things in


the


context. You are scared. Don't be scared


of proper Bible interpretation is


liberating. So So imagine this. Look at


end of the world. Let's read together


and see the


insanity. Verse 16. And let them which


be in Judea flee onto the mountains to


escape God's


judgment. So if they now flee, they have


escaped it or what? How does that sound?


How is that now your God? How is it


powerful like that? They are using they


are using leg to escape


judgment. Let him which is on the


housetop not come down to take anything


out of the house. Neither let him which


is in the field return back to take his


clothes. I mean jackp from there run.


This is not the time once you see that


invasion run. Don't say I need to


collect my


colle just they run they go. That's what


he say. W unto them that are with child


and unto them that give suck in those


days. Pray you that your flight be not


in the winter neither on the Sabbath


day. And then shall be a great


tribulation such as which great


tribulation is there a great tribulation


for Israel? Israel has many great


tribulation. The one that happened that


time, the one that happened again where


they were all scattered before they came


together in 1940 something after the


Hitler and the rest they have. Israel


have had many great tribulations. So


which one are you talking about? When


you take great tribulation, which great


tribulation when this tribulation you


are going through the world, it's not


great


enough. Say no, there's one great


tribulation that is coming. No, that's


daft way of interpreting Bible. In this


world, you shall have tribulation. Is it


not great enough? bed you know the great


trial you are not reading the Bible


together Peter calls what we are going


through right now great trial you are


waiting for great


one because we don't have a


missionmindedness sorry I'm not going to


pamper that interpretation I say many


people believe it doesn't change the


fact that they're not reading


Bible because that's why it's always cut


and nail cut and I cut this one and join


and we want to join all the context text


to be the same. Not all the context are


the same because to the prophets to the


apostles to the pe the Israel the


believers alive in that time of Paul


they were already going through


tribulation.


Look at it. So that you look at the what


they called what they were going


through.


1 Peter


1, wherein ye greatly rejoice, though


now for a season, if need be, ye are in


heaviness through manifold temptation.


Verse 7, that the trial of your faith be


much more precious than of gold. The


trial of your faith. So there's the


trial of your faith. The trial of your


faith being much more precious than gold


that perisheth, though it be tried with


fire, might be found with great praise


and honor and glory at the appearing of


Jesus


Christ. All that you have gone through,


see that same trial, 1 Peter


4. I explained this the day I taught


you, judgment shall begin from the house


of God. Beloved, think it not strange.


Verse 12, concerning the fiery


trial, which is to try you as though


some strange thing has happened to you.


But rejoicing as much as you are


particular of Christ


suffering. Remember, there's always


sufferings of this present time and not


to be compared with the glory that shall


be revealed. Notice trial then


transformation, suffering, then


glorification. It's always taught


alongside each other until you now get


to revelation where you are now having a


vision. It now turn into h they will


give you a mark not to buy and say they


give you we looking for one word


ruler. He will unify all


nations. Preach the gospel you not


preach. You are waiting for. So what are


we now doing now? We are now waiting.


He's coming. He's coming. He will unite


all nations to do


what? Only revelation. You have it. You


have that your uh the one that we are


going through now is


what are there not policies that are


that do not favor the gospel? Are there


not legislation that do not favor the


gospel? Because you don't want to


believe the antichrist already at work


because you're looking for one


person. So after your favorite


antichrist die, another one will still


be born. You know how many generations


have passed that they have been naming


one individual.


That illiteracy is why so some people


have backslided because of those foolish


interpretation that they say the words


come to end not end don't be teaching


Bible cut and nail


approach a great trial 2 Corinthians


8 moreover bed we do you to wit of the


grace of God bestowed on the churches of


Macedonia how that in a great trial of


affliction great trial of


affliction the abundon of their joy and


the deep poverty abided unto the riches


of their liberality. Deep great


trial. So look at the word tribulation.


in revelation. Just look at the word


tribulation. I know I'm it's look I'm


going there are only five times you see


the word


tribulation. Never be scared of proper


Bible interpretation. Now they hide


something they


fear. Let's see the verse that come they


fear say no no you can't change it.


Don't tell me that's not what the verse


is saying. Look at tribulation. So you


let's see if Jo is already in


tribulation. Revelation 1 is the very


first time he uses the word he


says I John who also am your your


brother and companion in so John is


saying he is in tribulation and in the


kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ so


he's going through a lot that's the word


tribulation the same word trial there


pressing affliction anguish pressure


persecution that word tribulation


you are being there's pressure there's


affliction trouble everywhere so and he


says I'm going through for the preaching


of the gospel so he said he's in


tribulation now revelation chapter 2 one


of the churches that they are writing a


letter remember the church are going to


read it but it will have no meaning to


them so I'm reading a letter and is for


5,000 years from now 1,000 years from


now there's a beast how does that how


does that communicate to me say give it


to the churches in Asia Are the churches


in your church? I think it's the church


to Ephesus. Is that the church in Ben


city? And you do not want to make sense


to them. Really, how is that for


interpretation? I write this letter to


you. It makes no sense to you now, but


your corpses will understand this


message. Thank you. That's how when we


don't want to read Bible, well, I've


told you before. Wrong doctrine is


synonymous. We look like


you one day. you are when you the more


you understand you will see how they


work hand in hand because it look like


submit your brain submit your brain you


will not need it don't think don't


think is in reason when they don't


interpret Bible where then when they


find Bible where they will now come with


stupid phrases like the body of Christ


is


sick the church is not trying or God say


you are preaching rubbish before and


leave the church alone they now make it


look like it's a move there's one video


I've been training now Is it not people


like you that preach that nonsense?


Sound doctrine shows that everybody is


supposed to work hard. But pastors are


telling their members that they we have


stifled people's dream. They could


entrepreneur. No, now they keep people


dream. It's not here. Nobody who teaches


sound anybody dream. Let's not be making


look like body of Christ. It's not body


of Christ. It's you that is sick. It's


you that know what you are preaching.


Body of Christ this, body of Christ


that, body of Christ this. Then look at


the person try to save the body of


Christ. I committed a crime. I cast the


devil. I don't have rank for is this is


this is how you will save the body of


Christ. If you want to go into


criticism, nobody can stand. Just teach


the scriptures. Just teach the word of


God. Let all men be liars. Let God's


word be true. where it where it attacks


some persons then they they are just


because it's not them that after we


after teaching the truth you can do


nothing against the truth but for the


truth you fight the tree go grind you


fall for


grand so letter to Ephesus but the


church in Nigeria will interpret it


better for


them letter to uh Philadelphia but the


church in


uh


uh in Spain we interpret it for them


today. No, now it must mean something to


them. Hallelujah.


And unto the angel of the church in


Smuggna, Revelation 2:8, right? These


things see the first and the last, which


was dead and is at life. He said, I know


thy works and tribulation. Are you


seeing that they already going through


tribulation?


I know thy works and tribulation and


poverty and thou art


rich and I know the blasphemy of them


which say they are Jews. It's even


better now. It was even stronger in


those days where they will have policies


that Christians could not even buy


things. They say they are one of those


people. Don't sell for them, don't sell


for them. They not belong to us. They


are preaching something else. Yes sir.


It was so severe how people just take


knife. Today now there are laws that


won't protect people from just daggering


you when you say you are a Christian say


ah kill them the enemy of the


states now you can use human right come


from some other places and they say ah


yes we are supposed to protect


everybody but it's not like that once


you say Jesus Christ dagger


them so there was tribulation then and


there's still tribulation


thee. Thank you. I know thy works and


thy tribulation and poverty and thou art


rich. And I know the blasphemy of them


that say they are Jews and are not, but


are synagogue of Satan. Fear none is not


saying a church that use the title


synagogue is of Satan. That's not it.


Don't Bible with your bias. If you hate


that preacher, say you hate that


preacher because the word synagogue


there is just assembly.


Fear none of those things which thou


shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall


cast some of you into


prison that ye may be tried and you


shall have tribulation 10


days. Why don't you want to believe that


these are the things is now seen later


on in the vision. No, it cannot be.


Yours is that great one that people are


using their own blood to to pay for


their sins.


making a mockery of what Jesus did so


that your vision will be correct after


they have suffered with their life after


suffer your life that second batch that


third


batch everybody is in that second batch


now is our blood we will use because if


we be used by works no man stand works


they go they stand before God ah No,


fear none of those


things which thou shalt suffer. Behold,


the devil shall cast some of you into


prison that you may be tried and you


shall have tribulation 10 days. Be thou


favor until the end unto death and I


shall give you the crown of life. He has


an ear let him years. So these are


things that they were going through.


Look at verse 13. I know thy works and


where thou dwellest even where Satan's


seat


is the heart of men and is controlling


these people. and thou holdest fast my


name and has not denied my faith even in


those days wearing antipass was my


faithful mati who was slain among you


where Satan


dwellestth because Satan is walking


actively through these people as an


accuser accusation that's why I use the


word Satan her Satan accuser bringing


that's why you are dying killing


Christians everywhere that's the context


tribulation


Again in verse 22, see the word great.


The very first time use the word great


tribulation. Verse


18. And unto the angel of the church in


Tatira, write these things, sayeth the


Son of God, who has the eyes like unto a


flame of fire, and his feet are like


fine brass. I know thy works and charity


and service and faith, and thy patience,


and thy works, and the last to be more


than the first. Notwithstanding, I have


a few things against thee, because thou


suffereest that woman Jezebel. Jezebel


that is long dead. You notice


metaphor. You suffer that woman Jezebel.


There's nobody by the name Jezebel in


that church. Oh, ah is using it as a


parallel. You saw that woman Jezebel


which call herself a prophetess to teach


even to seduce because that teaching is


seductive


teaching to seduce my servants to commit


fornication. This is male and female.


And to eat sacrificed onto idols. So


commit fornication there is not sexual


intimacy alone that he's talking about


but the core which is partaking of the


table of


idols


worshiing selfishness humanism all of


those other expressions that they become


today where you deviate from worshiping


the Lord from being one with the Lord


and being one with many other things


which is sharing yourself because you


are the temple of God. Shving yourself


with all that things is what is called


committing fornication. There you are


the temple of God but you violate that


by doing all that things identifying


serving other things. So that's why


conjoins


it and which is the word and to commit


fornication


even things sacrificed unto idols.


Remember the use of the word and. All


right. They say, "And I gave her space


to repent of her fornication, and she


repented not. Behold, I will cast her


into a bed to sleep with her." No. Now,


and them that commit adultery with her


into great tribulation, except they


repent of their


deed. So great trouble.


So those


who said I will kill her children with


death and all the churches will know


that I am he that searchth the


rings. what is her


children what she has taught remember


the look at the context as we go let's


just read it because of time because for


those who have never heard such


interpretations before verse 24 but unto


you I say and unto the rest in as many


as have not this doctrine so it's the


fruit of the remember Jezebel oh Jezebel


is not sleeping with anybody now she's a


prophet she's teaching now oh


god He wrote it there. Prophet is teach.


He's teaching seducing, deceiving


people. So why does he use fornication?


Because he already used the word teach


and seduce. So is the teaching is


deceiving. Just like in the last days


there will be seducing


spirits. It's not pulling people's


cloth. Now doctrines of devils. This is


one of doctrines of devils that he's


talking about.


So he uses that word great tribulation


which is the same word tribulation he


has been using


before. So words have their own


meaning in how the context of use. The


next time we see the word great


tribulation was revelation 7:14 and


that's the very last time where he


talked


about verse 14. And I said unto him s


thou knowest and he said unto me these


are they which came out of great


tribulation and have washed their robes


and made them white in the blood of the


lamb. How do


you you wash it with blood and it's now


white? That already shows you that don't


be reading this literally. You wash it


with blood is now white. I don't


understand. You wash something with


blood is white to be stained.


Now the same way of fire is is is lake


not body of water. There's a lot of


imageries because he's communicating


many. So like I've taught over the


years, revelation is that last book that


test you. It's a quiz to test whether


you have really read your Bible. You


have been jumping because every imagery


in revelation I use from Genesis to


Jude. So we now know that jump Bible


which is the reason why your fave raw


right because they are lazy. They sit in


counseling places office they read


Bible tweeting and fighting


bloggers know they read


Bible cuz they are reading Bible all


those imageries I've never been able to


believe that rapture theories or all


that mark of I mean I have not taught


you once in all my years of following


the Lord Jesus that should tell you that


good to the guest brain I didn't even


know the proper explanation But there


are some things that don't just make


sense and it's just revelation. They say


yes. Where


else now? Try to support it. Support it.


That's why people don't have the proper


biblical understanding of the end of the


world. Amen.


Hallelujah. Praise God.


Amen. Amen.


Romans chapter


8 Romans chapter 8 Romans chapter 8


Romans chapter


8 let's read from verseh 16 the spirit


also bear witness with our spirit that


we are children of God and if children


then heads hairs of God joint hairs with


Christ if so be that we suffer with him


that we may be also glorify fight


together. For I reckon that the


sufferings of this present time are not


worthy to be compared with the glory


which shall be revealed in us. The


sufferings of this present time. Are you


seeing that there's already sufferings?


Some people are waiting for it to start.


The sufferings of this present time,


there's sufferings already. There's a


lot we go through for the sake of Jesus


Christ. Not just normal sufferings of


humanity alone. there sufferings we go


through for Jesus Christ as


well. Then he now


says remember if we suffer with him


that's verse 17 so there's the suffering


that we because we believe in him


because of his name if the word hate me


they will hate you


also that's forcy so we say I don't


understand why people if they hated me


they will hate you that is so there is a


power there is a force there's an unseen


force only that is negative that is


working through people to actively hate


anything about Jesus Jesus Christ sir


and you you can't wrap your head around


why you just there's a lot of right up


against Jesus Christ against church


against pastors against giving


don't fall into that


conspiracy don't fall into it say oh


there are pastors that are doing this


there are people that are doing this


there's churches that are doing this


what about all the many others that are


better you not going to see use those


ones as


example it looks like there's always a


right up against a church right up


against a


pastor you think is just criticism


that's why you shouldn't join those even


if the church is wrong and those pastors


are wrong is he on Facebook will settle


the matter just like one dearly beloved


mad woman who went to sit down I have a


story to tell then she now told her


story of when she was young so what are


we going to now do on due time now she


has left Nigeria that's always how it


ends just subjecting people to torture.


That's not how to say should they not


speak and see some people emotional.


Lean on me, man. Lean on me. How do we


solve issues like


this? Let's not outgrow Matthew 18.


Don't outgrow it. How come you didn't


tell him to his face before we are doing


interview? I I want to tell my story.


How does this I think they have serve


you paper now. You sue you took him to


court. He warn you, you you you paid him


there. you jackpa and left your husband


people never forget Nigerians only one


month after one month the issue have


died everybody move on to the next


trending


topic say we stand with her we stand


with her we stand we are I was not there


I don't know I don't know what happened


I don't be standing with I don't stand


with anybody I stand with the man I


stand with I don't stand with anybody I


stand with Bible I stand with Jesus I


don't stand I don't know where they


stand I don't remember for where I


stand they stand I stand with him I


stand with eyes. I don't stand with


anybody because you must have an


objective way of viewing things. Have an


objective way of using to some it look


like ah you don't care. Those people are


the ones that don't care and the ones


that are leaving


anyhow. Let's not model up things. Tell


him to his face. If he will not hear


you, tell somebody else who will tell


him. If he does, then tell it to the


church. There's not time that I say tell


it to CNN. Tell it to your favorite


podcaster. tell it in your interview.


There's no time


we because they can't judge anything.


It's just going to be taste by moon like


hey have you heard have you how does


that solve the issue? Doesn't solve any


issue but people like


that which is the same reason why we


tell people uh


uh of course please now don't every sane


person should be against rape.


In fact, when we hear that you are not


against rape, it shows something is


wrong. But doesn't mean that we should


not have proper judgment


because cry out not me say good just now


first to cry out that's proper judgment.


Don't just oh the first person that's


not how to interpret things. So you grow


up and you realize that many people have


been killed for those kinds of


interpretation. All right. So


fundamentally we should know what we are


against. We should be against


exploitation, manipulation or even


things like that. Should be against


that. That is a sane person. That's how


sin people


think. However, we should not be for a


way of dealing with matters that are not


taught in


scriptures and say no. You are


empowering what already has a bias


against the church against the name of


Christ because that's not how we deal


with matters. There's how we deal with


matters because you see let me tell the


world the world does not like


you. The world hates


you. Amen. So we must always get it


clear. Must always get it clear.


Don't don't


don't uh project what is not because


people don't talk about all the


thousands that are getting


saved. I see gloom. I see darkness. Me


I've never been able to see that gloom


and darkness that people are seeing for


the body of Christ. I don't know how


which eyes that they are using to see


their own. I see gloom. I see the church


in Nigeria. One of my friend in worry.


Oh God is so popular these days as a


group the church the church every church


has filled. Hey


God can we preach what we are preaching


now in Lagos in our places. Can we


preach it in in Sooto? Can we preach it


in the one you are preaching sir? Can


you preach it in


sooto? Because everything you are


preaching about that pastor on your


pizza everything that is training is


what you are


preaching if you want to go the way of


critism you finger will come back to you


just preach what you can preach and


leave there except you are just sounding


the way I'm sounding just being


objective


generally because sound doctrine impass


discernment to you doesn't take away


your discernment and know it gives you


proper discernment proper view amen


hallelujah


Yeah. The sufferings so we suffer with


him, we shall be glorified together. For


I reckon that the sufferings of this


present time, so remember this present


time are not worth it to be compared


with the glory that shall be


reveed for the manifestation, the


unveiling, the revealing. That's the


word apocalypse. The apocalypsis of the


sons of God. So the we now we are still


being revealed. So that will be the


final unveiling where we will now see


ourself the way we really are. our


glorification of exactly like him, not


just in spirit but in


body. For the creature was made subject


to vity, not willingly but by reason of


him that the same in hope because the


creation itself also shall be delivered


from the bondage of corruption into the


glorious libert of


God. For we know that the whole creation


groanth and traveleth in pains together


until now. The whole creation is


groaning because this is not the world.


This this is not how God made the world


to be. So the whole world the creation


itself everything created is


groaning. That's why everybody wants a


better world. We all want a better


world. There's a


groaning and tra in pain together until


now. But not only they but oursel also


which have the first fruit of the spirit


even we ourselves grown within oursel


waiting for the adoption to with the


redemption of our body. So it's not


power demonstrations that is calling


manifest the sons of god to w the


adoption waiting for the adoption to the


redemption of our bodies. Our bodies


need to be redeemed. Our bodies right


now is not a son of God. But our bodies


shall be a son of God. Did you get it?


So our bodies are not fully representing


the life we have. But then our bodies


shall be swallowed up with life. Then we


shall see


it. For we are saved by hope, but hope


that is seen is not hope. For what a man


seeth, why does he yet hope for? If we


hope for what we see not then we with


patience wait for it. Verse 26. So how


should we live in these times? Which is


why unseen forces are important which is


why we must learn about the spirit


world. Likewise the spirit also helpeth


our


infirmities. So in these times that


spirit of God that we have what is it


doing? Helpeth our infirmities. Our


shortcomings our frailties.


helpeth our


infirmities. All the things that we are


going through, all the


frailties, don't just think it to


morality. It's not that. It's not that


the weakness. In fact, it's even more


bodily. All the physical things we go


through is what he's talking about there


by infirmities. The spirit also helpeth


our infirmities.


For we know not. Verse 26, for we know


not what we


should. Notice didn't say for we don't


know how to pray. No, we know how to


pray. We are taught how to pray. We are


to pray in the name of Jesus. We are to


pray in faith. We are to we are taught


how to pray in the scriptures. But it


now says for we know not what we should


pray for. Because sometimes we don't


know what we should. Should I pray for


it like this? Should I pray for it like


this? Because issues they say should I


pray say I pray for because is life


different things are happening in life


sometime say I thought I can pray this


matter you know some people don't


understand until they go through things


they will not realize what we are saying


so that you now have you pray for


something that five months have not come


to pass you now say maybe I'm not


praying the prayer well so you want to


change the prayer maybe seven months one


year you realize that we don't


For we know not what we should pray


for. So sometimes we don't know what who


which. Is it this I should be praying


for or is it that I should be praying


for? Okay, let me just pray for this


first. Okay, let me come to this. We


don't know what we should pray for as we


ought


but that spirit, the spirit maketh


intercession for us. The spirit maketh


intercession for us.


The spirit make intercession for us with


groanings which cannot be altered.


Notice he says likewise also helpeth.


That's the first thing he said helpeth.


That word


help to lay hold alongside


together to take hold alongside with


another. And we demonstrated it that day


in our truth experience meeting. But


let's do it again. Come you male. Male.


Yeah.


Come come come come come come come come




come come come come come come come come
come come come come come come come come.


Come this way. Come this way. Come this


way. You don't need to come to church.


That's why you have forgotten the story.


Keep this Bible. Keep the B. I say you


already know the story.


If you hold this thing from here, it is


easy. Abby, lift up. No, this podium


looks like it's suffering challenge


already from Notice how easy.


Drop one person lifting it. Is it not


going to be hard? Yes. Harder. It's


harder. But do it again from that same


position.


Notice


it's notice it's not so heavy. Yes. Try


lifting only one side. You trying from


there lifting it. Yes. Notice it's


difficult. It's even impossible to lift


it. you it's harder for you to lift it


ab but support


the same effort but different result


different result


this is just a physical example there


are thank you thank you that's how many


times in life


this so and we on the other side we are


just putting one


finger we we we feel help


god because he say hold your side I hold


I said meanwhile is the all the weight.


Have you ever carried load with somebody


before and the person cannot carry


[Applause]


load? I will use this example not


because I think women are not strong.


But have you carried heavy with a lady


before? You understand the example. I


just gave a disclaimer. But you say part


of believe that women are not strong.


No.


Now more ladies. No. No. I don't say now


car now.


The whole weight is on your side because


you know if you put the


weight even the way the person is


holding it with you feel like so that's


how we


carry that's how we are all the weight


is on his side he's helping us the holy


ghost helpeth our infirmities so in this


s this sufferings of this present time


all that we are going through we have


the holy spirit as a help then you now


tell me not to walk with the holy spirit


you lie


The Holy Spirit will help me. He He will


help me or he will help me. He helpeth


our infirmities. He's helping me. And


that's where we learn how to live with


the spirit of God. How to walk with the


power of God's spirit. The spirit of God


is helping


me. Help him.


So the Lord, the spirit of the Lord lays


hold opposite alongside with us over and


against the opposition. So it becomes


easier and it becomes lighter to carry


any burden because the Lord is helping


me. The Lord is helping me. And that's


why we learn how to walk with the spirit


of God. It's what makes life bearable.


If not, all will just have it one day. I


can't wait for the world to be better. I


can't wait for new Eden. I can't wait


for global. I can't wait for all the


earth. We not follow you to do that. We


can't wait because we actively are doing


something and the Lord is actively


helping us.


So we are saved by hope. But hope that


is seen is not hope. For what does a man


seeth? Why does he yet hope for


it? So but the spirit itself maketh


intercession for us with groanings that


cannot be uttered. The groanings that


cannot be uttered here is


not that you are altering it sir. I say


pastor you don't believe in groaning in


the spirit. That's going in the spirit


is not prayer here. Not a lie on the


Bible. The groaning that cannot be


altered. You are altering your own. No


groanings that cannot be altered. Where


is groaning in the look at how many


times he mentions groan to now


lie against this text. Verse 22, he uses


the word groan. For we know that the


whole creation


groanth and traveleth in pain. In verse


23 say even we ourself grown within


ourself. Then you now go to


26 you turn to prayer. What a


wow Bible interpretation. All of a


sudden it turn to


prayer. Creation is groaning. We are


groaning. All of a sudden it turn to


prayer point. I need to groan in the


spirit. No n that's not how to


read the groanings that cannot be. Many


times we have those s is s i g h. Hm.


Have you have you ever gone through


things before and you


just there are some you but the real one


you don't used to it they your mind just


the one you can say it is where it go


better but then you not do


that. Say what is happening? You not go


understand the groaning. Are you


guessing it? That cannot be altered. And


that's how creation because this is not


how the world was made. This is not how


everything was made to


function. And so walking in and by the


spirit makes these


times


bearable, better. And somebody is


telling me not to walk with the spirit


of God. You lie. You lie.


You lie. I will learn how to walk with


the spirit of God better. I'll learn how


to engage the power of God's spirit


better. I will


not just in power, in revelation, in


utterance. And in power, it go complete.


It is not in man that live to direct


himself. So God will direct me step by


step. He lead me. I'll allow him go. I


would receive help. I would I will


receive help. It's not good for man to


be alone. Right from the beginning, God


intended to be the helper of man.


Ah, I lied my eyes onto the heels from


where my my coming from the Lord. Help


me Lord. Help me Lord. And we are


together and he supplies the help. He


supplies the help and that's how we


live. Hallelujah.


So right now while everybody's waiting


for the new creation, all the earth to


be better,


we right now are


functioning. The Holy Spirit is helping


us and we are functioning with the power


of the word to come. Hebrews chapter


2 verse 3. How shall we escape regret?


So great salvation which at the first


began to be spoken by the Lord and was


confirmed unto us by them that heard


him. So all the people who have borne


witness. What did God do? God also build


them witness both with signs and


wonders. So I become a preacher of the


gospel. God bears me witness with signs


and wonders with diverse miracles


different distributions. The word


diverse the different meismos


distributions of the Holy Ghost. So any


way the spirit of God can work with me,


go walk with me to reach the world.


Hallelujah. And gifts of the diverse


miracle and gifts of the Holy Ghost,


that's me, distributions of the Holy


Ghost according to his own will. For


unto the angels had he not put in


subjuggestion the world to come whereof


we speak. So there's a world to come and


that wall to come is not under.


No, no, no. It's under the subjugation


of the new creation man because he says


we shall judge angels. He will right now


and this is where we would continue from


here on Sunday. You will see those text


say I will give you the morning star


where Paul say don't you know you shall


judge angels in 1 Corinthians chapter 6


and he says I'll give them to they will


reign and rule with me right


now that territorial spirit over places


placeholders since babel where god is


inherited the nations but right now in


the dearis of Jesus they have been


defeated but they are still there but


they have defeated so that's why we go


saying you No place belongs to you


because they are in rebellion against


God. Instead of teaching men to follow


the Lord, they took the worship of the


people in that community in those places


and became the gods and goddesses of


those places we judge them that your


time is up. Your time is up. And for all


those fair s p e r for those


places we disinherit them. And in that


word of glorification the global eden as


we like to call it the or the eternal


eden we are now going to rule in those


places not them. That's the same context


he's doing here where he says the world


to come. He not put it in under angels.


Now in the 70 nations Genesis 11 as at


that time there was no nation called


Israel after that God created a nation


called Israel and it was not under those


principality and powers that were


disinherited in chapter 11 of Genesis.


So historically that was that world to


come was Israel. But upon the work of


Jesus on the cross that world to


come now which starts from the new


creation man we are not of course under


angels. That world to come is not also


going to be under angels because man has


taken his place. Then the world is now


as it was made to be. Hallelujah. Praise


God.


For unto the angels had he not put in


session the world to come where off we


speak. But why in a certain place


testify because that salvation is of the


world to come that we speak because


there's something because the salvation


that we are preaching so great salvation


has to do with the world to come because


all the earth will now be as it was


intended to be. Amen. Just like we sing


it that's why to put things in


songs every man in the sacred place


living as we were. All right. So and why


in a certain place testify saying what


is manful of him or son of man him. So


you see that for thou has made it lower


than angel crown him in glory and honor.


Daddy put all things. So it's showing


you that the original order was all


things in subjection on that


man. Amen. But the failure of Genesis 3,


Genesis 6, Genesis 11 have changed the


world and all the rebellion since then


have turned the world to something else.


see the world to come again. Hebrews 6.


Now this time he put it alongside with


power for it is impossible for those who


were once enlightened. I always teach


people if you don't understand how this


text read just read the beginning which


is chapter 4 and read it into chapter


six then you'll see how intelligence


comes back to


life. Because it is impossible for those


who were once enlightened if they shall


fall away to them and begin to


repentance see this crucified to


themselves son of man aresh and put to


an open shame. So when you read four


into six you already get the image that


this cannot be how you lose your


salvation. This is actually how you


cannot lose your salvation that is


teaching because he say it is


impossible. It is impossible.


It is impossible for those who were once


enlightened if they fall away. It is


impossible to what? Renew them again to


repentance seeing that that will be


crucifying Jesus Christ aresh again and


again. And you can't crucify Jesus aresh


again and


again. Calm down. You know some people


are reading it but they are still


reading it with that backward way of


interpreting Bible that that once you


see you cannot come back. So how do you


not come back? How come all the how come


that same preacher after preach that


message say if you are back


come their brain be working you only


just now say then you say come


come. So which time are we now going to


now stop


coming. No he's saying the man that save


cannot be born again again and again


because seeing it is impossible to renew


him again because already saved once.


You cannot be he can you cannot be Jesus


is not dying every day. Oh, I have come


again. Jesus died for me again. It


cannot. It is impossible for those who


are already enlightened, who are already


saved to be renewed again and again.


It's impossible. Read it together. You


now see, oh, that's what he was saying.


Not that he's


teaching. It is impossible for those who


were once enlightened. If they shall


fall away, what is that fall away?


Parapito use uh gotten from the word


paratoma where a believer falls into a


trespass where if you if you see your


brother fall into a trespass he which


has resto not a one. So where a believer


falls into sin, he says you cannot what


you can see what what he say you can do


if they fall


away. If they shall fall away, if they


shall enter into any trespass, to renew


them again unto


repentance, seeing they crucify to


themselves the son of God aresh and put


him to an open


shame. So renew them again. The word


renew again


again. How many times did Jesus do his


work? Once. Then he says once. Then he


says to renew them again. Why? Because


the enlightening is how they were first


renewed. The enlightening is how they


were first


renewed. Titus 3. I've never heard the


word renew before. Okay.


show you the word renew is used


alongside explaining


salvation. Titus 3:5, not by works of


righteousness which we have done, but


according to his own mercy, he saved us


by the washing of regeneration and the


renewing of what?


Thank you. So he call salvation the


renewing of the Holy Ghost.


So when you got born


again, you were the Holy Ghost is what


made you a new person. That's why he's


saying it's impossible to renew the


person again because you already


enlightened. How can you be cannot be


renewing the person again and again


because that will be bringing Jesus to


an open shame because that's the very


sin that Jesus died for that you are


saying Jesus should be dying again and


again and


again. Hallelujah. Don't don't take my


word for it. Don't worry. another in a


different topic. We'll teach on this


topic again since it's a bit confusing.


If you still have and I we just talk


around Hebrews chapter 6 but there's


nothing confusing


there. It is impossible for but where


are we going? Let me read why I came to


Hebrews 6 so that we're not distracted


by so when people tell me I I believe I


can lose my salvation I say yes. When


people tell me they believe they can


lose their salvation I say yes. Say ah


which one you want to lose your own now.


Amen. May you lose your salvation. He


say no that's not what I'm trying to


say. Then why do we teach what we don't


want people


to why are you learning how to lose your


salvation? Do you want to lose your own?


Say no. Say but you can be lost your own


say no I don't want to lose my who do


you want to now lose their own. There's


something called the fruit of doctrine.


That's how you know bad teaching. How


come we don't do a teaching on how to


lose your holiness? Why do we do a teach


on how to lose salvation? You see the


fruit, the spirit of that teaching is


wrong. How come we don't do a teaching


on how to lose your walking in love? We


teach people how to walk in love. We


teach people how to be saved. You are


not teaching us how to lose our


salvation. Do you want us to lose our


salvation? You're not getting


it. Why should we be teaching people how


to lose their salvation? Do you want to


lose your own? I don't want to lose my


own. So why are you teaching me? I


should be learning how to keep my


salvation not how to lose my salvation.


But this thing is not my salvation that


I'm keeping because it it is it is the


meaning of insanity to be keeping your


salvation. It is my salvation that keeps


me. It is the savior that keeps me from


keep me saved. If I keep my salvation


then I saved my


savior. No, that's why it's called


savior. What does a savior do? Save


somebody. So if he could not save me


then he's not a


savior. That's why I say he will keep us


from falling. He will present us for it


is his


responsibility not my responsibility.


Amen.


Hallelujah.


Learning something. Yes sir.


So it is impossible for those who were


once enlightened. Remember the word is


impossible.


So is so what is simply saying in


Hebrews 6 4-6 which everybody agrees


which some now they agree that it's


impossible to re them again and they use


it for losing salvation but you note


that the impossible is to renew again


which is not losing salvation exactly


it's impossible to renew a believer


again and again because he's already


saved that's the


context. So it is impossible for those


who were once enlightened that's the


believer and have tasted of the heavenly


gift tasted there is to partake of it


say they taste they did not eat those


that are when we when people don't know


how to explain this thing you say they


taste you not eat it you taste but one


day you will not


eat is the same what Jesus tasted death


for he did not


die he did not partake of death I he


only taste it no now don't give Bible


your own meaning Jesus tasted dead. The


same word in Hebrews 2:9 that he should


taste death for us consistent in how it


has been. So has


tasted and have tasted of the heavenly


gifts. That


means and we're made partakers of the


Holy Ghost. Is that not you and I


partakers? We are associates of the Holy


Ghost. Associate. That's why he walking


alongside with us. That's why he's


helping us because we are not


associates. We are partakers of the Holy


Ghost and have tasted the good word of


God. They live by the word of God and


the powers of the world to come. That's


where we are focusing in this second


part of this series. The powers of the


world to


come. Powers.


I like the use of the word powers. He


put S. And the powers of the world to


come. That is what we are living with


right now.


So some people are waiting. We are


waiting for when all the earth is made a


new. No, we don't. We are not waiting.


Right now we are living with that power


of the word to come. Right now we are


partakers of the Holy Ghost. Right now


we are working with the Holy Spirit.


Right now we live with the power of God.


Right now we are doing things. Right now


Hallelujah.


Right now we are engaging forces. And if


we for our good right now, we are


bringing down every negative force


against our life, against our ministry,


against what God has called us to be


right now. We are not


waiting right now. And we have that


power exceeding greatness of his power.


We have the power of God. That power is


not some people is until the new until


all the earth is renewed for finally


move in power. Why now? Now is even now


you have more things to bring under


subjugation. Enjoy your time of


practica. Right now. Right now. Right


now I'm in charge. I'm in charge. Right


now I live with the power of God. Stand


on your feet. Right now I live with the


power of God. Right now I function with


the power of God. I function. Right now


I engage forces. Right now I engage


forces. Right now. Right now. Right now.


Right now. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord.


Not later.


Right now. Right now.


Say, there's a lot going on. The Holy


Ghost is helping me. Right now. Right


now. Right now. The Holy Ghost is


helping me right now. I'm a particle of


the Holy Ghost right now. I'm walking


with the Holy Spirit right


now. Not tomorrow. Right now. And I


choose to live like that because it


makes the days better. It makes life


bearable. Everything is


okay. Right now. Right now. Right now.


Right now. Right now. I function with


the power of God's spirit. I function.


Right now. Right now. Right now. I walk


in revelation. Right now I walk in


revelation. Right now I walk in power.


Right now I walk in power. Right now I


walk in allance. Right now in the name


of Jesus. In the name of Jesus. Yeah.


Right now. Right now. Cry.


Right now. Right now. Every day. Every


day. I walk with vision. I walk with


vision. That's why we that's when you


understand you now see why with


supernatural it makes the sufferings of


this time bearable.


The only issue is how it has been


overstretched by charismatic to now be


make it look like there's no suffering


at all. No, there's suffering. Things


are happening. I'm not talking about


because you don't have money in your


pocket. Not that one. There's a lot we


go through. There's a lot of opposition


against us for being saved. Then


secondarily, the things that we now go


through, but firstly is in our standing


for the Lord Jesus. There's


opposition. There's a lot of opposition


against that. The world hates him. They


will hate you. It's a lot of opposition.


So we suffer with him. Then the whole


creation is even groaning. We want the


whole world to right now. Uh air


pollution, global warming, this one.


Look at the the it shows you the world


itself is decaying is dying. Is and God


is going to end that whole corrupt


order, that whole corrupt system. And


he's going to be transformed at the same


glorious liberty. Out of the dying of


the old comes the new. Hallelujah. Just


like out of his death came the new


creation. Out of the dying of the old


will come a new heaven and a new earth.


Hallelujah.


And that's what I live for.


I live for the propagation of the gospel


for the for that day to come for the for


the glory of God for the kingdom of God.


I live for that. I live for that. And


right now I'm not just going to be


passive like oh cancer may ravage my


body now but in the world to come I will


put on immortality. No even now I can


dislodge cancer. That same spirit that


will make me put on immortality is


already in me now. If that same spirit


that raised Christ from the dead, Romans


8:11, if that same spirit that raised


Christ dwell in you, that same spirit


that shall give life to your mortal boy,


that same spirit, oh boy, that same


spirit, that same spirit, that reminds


of first Corinthians 12:11, all these


work that one and the same spirit. That


same spirit, that same spirit, that same


spirit, that same spirit, that same


spirit, that same spirit. So now we can


go further in this series. Yes. Because


it's that same spirit. Yes, sir. That


we're talking about. That's a force.


Yes, sir.


That same spirit. I walk with the Holy


Ghost. I walk with the ghost. I walk


with the angels of God. I walk with the


angels of God. That same spirit that


raised Christ from the dead is at work


in me.


And with with that spirit of God, I'm


making things I'm I'm I'm is making


things bearable, making things better


for me. I walk with the spirit of God. I


walk with the spirit of God. In the name


of Jesus.


I live by the spirit of God. I function


by the spirit of God.


I'm yet to have a better yesterday. No,


every day keeps getting better and


better. It can only get better for me.


I live by the Holy Ghost. I walk by the


Holy Ghost. I function by every day by


the Holy Ghost.


Every day I come in the name of Jesus.


Every day I come in the power of God's


spirit.


Every day. That's why when we have human


issues, we reconcile quickly because we


want peace. Every day I have peace.


Every when we have every we deal with


the things because nothing will make me


not have a great day. Nothing will make


me not have because the Holy Ghost is


helping me. That's why if you notice, he


will tell you my daughter, go and do


this, my son. I don't know why we don't


want to commit to that. I I I choose to


commit to that. I choose to commit to


that. I choose to listen to the Holy


Ghost. If he says go here, I go there.


If he say buy that, I buy that. He say


get this, I get this. He's helping me in


all areas of my life. I not say no. Help


me in business. Don't help me in


marriage. No, help me everywhere. Help


me everywhere. Help me everywhere. Help


me everywhere. Help me


everywhere. Some of us are not that


wise. So we say, "Help me Lord. Help me


in the choice of this. Help me in this.


me. I have chosen for the Lord to be


helping me in everything. And he have


said he will never leave me. Hey, see


assurance. He have said he will never


leave me nor forsake me. So I'm so I may


boldly say because of his assurance I'm


now filled with


boldness. I can boldly


say I can boldly say I can boldly say.


What are you boldly saying? That's how


we can now boldly because of the


assurance, the good word of God, the


powers of the word to come. We can now


boldly say, I boldly say, I cannot be


stranded. I boldly say I can never be


stranded. I boldly say it. I boldly say


it


that my life is the story of the glory


of God. My life has ended in glory. I


boldly say it. I boldly say it. I boldly


say that I'm nothing terrified of the


adversary. I boldly say it that I'm


surrounded by with favor. I boldly say


it that everywhere I go, people love to


do me well. I boldly say


it. The earth is the Lord and the


fullness thereof. I reach the world. I


preach the gospel. I live for the


propagation of the gospel.


I boldly say I boldly say I boldly say I


boldly say I boldly say I boldly


say


boldly healing is at work in my body.


Health is at work in my body. I boldly


say it. I boldly say in a in a suffering


of this present time Edo state is not


safe there's this I live in the Lord


Jesus I dwell in David said Lord is my


safety is there's one thing where the


Lord keeps you safe there where the Lord


is your safety I love David he


personifies everything he said the Lord


is my safety not only is he keeping me


safe the same David said Lord keeps me


safe. I dwell in safety. The same David


now say the Lord is my


safety. The reason why I'm safe


physically is because I'm in the Lord.


Every day I dwell in safety.


This is the reason why we now boldly say


my life is not in the sea. It's not in


the road that it will be plucked off


that a vehicle will take me away. No, my


life is in the hand of the Lord. I dwell


in safety. I dwell in safety. You will


boldly say it.


I boldly say I boldly say in six trouble


year in seven the Lord delivers me. I


shall laugh at famine and destruction


when it come. I boldly say it. I'm


always laughing at


famine. Is economic crisis. Haha. I


always laugh at it. I laugh at


destruction when it come. You got the


wrong person. You got the wrong


address. No, I never quit. I never throw


in the toy. I never say it's all over.


I'm done.


Oh, great days. Great days. I I'm filled


with life and energy and power. It can


only get


better and it's only getting better for


me. It can only get better for me.


Have you seen how some Christians talk?


Nobody know I don't even know what's


going to happen to somebody feel your


debt. No, I don't talk like that.


My story is the story of endless


victories.


For God always causes me to triumph.


Always causes me to triumph.


My story is a story of triumph.


Victory onto victory. Victory onto


victory. That's it.


Heads or tail we win. That's my story.


Oh, that's how I talk. That's how I


think. I think by the spirit is


supernatural. He say have you heard? He


said no. When they told he said trouble


not the master gyrus is dead. Jesus


immediately turned and said fear not be


not


afraid. I have that response to life


circumstances. Immediately life


circumstances come at me. I say I will


not be afraid.


[Applause]


Jesus got there and raised Lazar and


raised J's daughter up.


Little girl, I say arise.


Rise up.


Every day I come in the power of God's


spirit. I come with resurrection power.


Power of the word to come. Oh, is at


work in me. Oh.


That power that raised Jesus from the


dead is at work in me. So I don't say


things like ah my own is if it's now


even if natural things you hear people


say things like my own is finished I


don't think I can ever get married. Okay


if is now marriage that is such an


issue. No


Lord where is the man I'm ready now.


Where's the man you've just followed


your your leading in utrance in


revelation and


everything doesn't take time you just


hear you see you know then the person


engages you see there's nothing that


makes us cry


if it's going to make me cry I tell God


I tell God I tell God my only crying is


for good thing is tears of joy


He does not understand that people


mourn. We are not talking about that.


Mourn with them that mourn. Brother, not


not not that it is my strategy for life.


Your strategy for life be you are


already preparing to mourn. You already


preparing for failing. No, if that time


comes good and fine, we mourn with them


that mourn. But for me, I will come to


the grave in a full age like a shock of


commenting in a season. So only when I'm


satisfied with my days, I boldly say


it. The principalities and powers have


heard. The princes of nations have


heard. My life is in the hand of the


[Applause]


Lord. Is the He that watcheth over me


neither sleeps nor


slumber. I'm assured of great days.


God is not sleeping on my


mah say beat yourself cry out maybe bow


will hear you maybe he's sleeping my own


not


asleep I call on him once he answer me


God said in that parable say will not


the even the unjust judge say will she


not will he not avenge that woman


speedily said but your God is not so


much more much more shall not God


much more God is not unjust


that I don't need to come again and


again because of my importunity. No, but


God heareth me.


To him that he pray all flesh call. I


love to talk to God because he hears my


prayer. He answers me. He answers me.


[Music]


So I have what to say.


I said that's it. Oh. Yes sir. I have


words. I have words. Prophecy comes to


make days bearable. Prophecy comes so


that we now have what to say. So this


what to say. Though this what how I see


at last master what shall we do? The


enemy was still there but the man


switched sight functioning by


revelation. He was not afraid again. The


same enemy that was surrounding was


still there. That's why I live by the


unseen. I've seen how the days to come


will look.


I didn't see


it broken to the left or right. No, I've


seen heal and hearty, health, strength,


victory.


I boldly say


so now


and now even onto the world to come. I'm


already functioning in that power.


I'm not waiting. Oh, and I'm not wasting


time.


redeeming the time because the days are


evil. So I maximize my time. I live by


the power of God in all transition and


in power. It can only get


better. I would cry to God and Yahweh's


sabat. He will yell,


"Oh, the Lord of angels


armies. He will ride.


Oh Lord of Jesu, ride upon the cloud to


my head. Say I know what it mean to if


you see the imagery in their world view


to ride upon the cloud. He is swift on


my


matter. God is swift on my


matter. God is swift on my matter.


God is swift on my matter.


Hey,


I'll never be broken or discouraged.


See, happy is the man that have the God


of Jacob as a help.


Then you are you are you are regretting


being saved. No. Happy is that man that


have God as a refuge.


David now said Yahweh my refuge, my


fortress, my God. In him will I trust. I


will not f to I know whom I believe. I


know whom I believe. There's so David


said I would have fainted unless I had


believed to see the goodness of the Lord


in the land of living. I will not faint.


I know whom I believe. I know I know


whom I believe. So I'm not fainting. Oh


there's no fainting for me. Oh


I boldly say it. I boldly say it. Go


ahead and say things now.


Hallelujah. Come on.