And we trust again that in this service


this morning, the eyes of our


understanding will be flooded with


light. Live here again with a greater


understanding of your plans, your


purpose, and your will for us. And even


as we study again on unseen forces, we


declare that the things that ought to be


said will be said. The things that ought


to be done will be done to the praise


and glory of your name. Amen. God bless


you. Have your seats.


Hallelujah.


Glory.


Woo. Hallelujah.


Amen.


Ah. Now smoke everywhere.


Genesis chapter 1 and verse one to


three. He says, "In the beginning, God


created the heaven and the earth, and


the earth was without form and void,


darkness upon the face of the deep, and


the spirit of God moved upon the face of


the waters." The spirit of God moved


upon the face of the waters. And he


said, "Let there be light." And there


was light. Let there be light. And there


was light. Let there be light. And there


was light. Hallelujah. Let there be


light. And there was light. There was


light. There was light.


Genesis 11 and verse4


see the same idea of heaven and earth


together. And they said go to let us


build us a city and a tower who stop may


reach unto heaven and let us make us a


name lest we be scattered abroad upon


the face of the whole earth. You see


heaven and earth together. Now of course


the tower there is not a skyscraper. No


no no no no. The word t in the word the


Hebrew word is the word mcdal which is


used for an Egyptian temple. It's an the


word is also Egyptian in origin. So when


he says uh the use of the word ziggurat


a supernatural dwelling place for the


gods on the earth that's the word tower.


It's used later when in judges for a


place where deities were worshiped. So


the word has its own meaning. It's not


skyscrapers. The Bible it's not an


unintelligent book. God has no problem


with skyscrapers. It's just being stupid


religion. God has no problem with


skyscrapers. Genesis 28:12, "And he


dreamed, and behold, a ladder set up on


the earth, and the top of it reached to


heaven, and behold, the angels of God


ascending and descending on it." Again,


we see heaven and earth together. Heaven


and earth together, heaven and earth


together. Psalm 115.


Psalm 115 and verse 15- 16. You are


blessed of the Lord which made heaven


and earth. The heaven, even the heavens


are the Lord, but the earth has he given


to the children of men. God gave the


earth to the children of men. Isaiah 65


and verse 17.


For behold, I create new heavens and new


earth, and the former shall not be


remembered nor come to mind. Chapter 66.


Again, he uses the same phrasing.


For as the new heavens and the new earth


which I will make shall remain before


me, say the Lord, so shall your seed and


your name remain. So use of the word


heaven and earth. 66 verse 1 and two.


Thus the Lord, the heaven is my throne.


The earth is my foottool. Where is the


house that you build unto me? Where is


the place of my rest? So he uses heaven


and earth together. Heaven and earth


together. The same idea. Just a quick


read that I'm doing. Matthew 6:10 a


selfexplanatory


of assault. Thy kingdom come, thy will


be done in earth as it is in heaven. Thy


will be done in earth as it is in


heaven. In earth as it is in heaven.


That's the divine intention. Uh Matthew


16 and verse 19. I give unto thee the


keys of the kingdom of heaven and


whatsoever thou shalt bind on it shall


be bound in heaven. Whatever thou shalt


lose on it shall be losing heaven. And


he is on the earth. He didn't have to


die to have keys to heaven. Amen.


Matthew chapter 18. Because not the


planet away from each other. Matthew 18


verse 18. Verily I say unto you,


whatever you shall bind on earth shall


be bound in heaven. Showing you the


supernatural influence of unforgiveness,


bitterness and offense. Whatever you


bind on it because the context is about


forgiveness. So many time where we think


that it's just my strong will. It's just


my it's just I'm not going to budge. I'm


not going to budge. You are


being demonized ma we know what is the


voices you are hearing you need to pray


say no I'm not going to pray you need to


because you are not thinking things


clearly and is making things so real to


you with the whole emotions and all so


very whatever you shall bind on shall be


bound to heaven whatever you shall lose


on earth shall be loosed in heaven


Matthew 28


Matthew 28 and verse 18. And Jesus came


and spake unto them, saying, All


authority in heaven is given unto me in


heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore,


all authority in heaven and earth is


given unto me. All authority in heaven


and on earth. All authority in heaven


and on earth. All authority in heaven


and on earth. Ephesians chapter 1.


Ephesians chapter 1 and vers


10 or 9 into 10. And having made known


unto us the mystery of his will,


according to the good pleasure which he


had proposed in himself, that in the


disposition of the fullness of time, he


might gather together in one all things


in Christ, both which are in heaven, and


which are on the earth, even in him.


Heaven and earth in him, heaven and


earth in him, heaven and earth in him.


The same again, Ephesians 3:15, of whom


the whole family in heaven and earth is


named. The whole family in heaven and


earth is named. The whole family in


heaven and earth is named. The whole


family in heaven and earth is named. The


whole family in heaven and earth is


named. The whole family in heaven and


earth is named.


Philippians before Colossians


Philippians chapter 2 and we'll read


from vers 10. That at the name Jesus of


nine. Wherefore God also has highly


exalted and has given him a name that is


above every name. That at the name Jesus


every knee should bow of things in


heaven of things in the earth and things


under the earth. Things should bow.


Things should bow. Colossians 1:16-20


he says for by him were all things


created that are in heaven that are in


the earth visible and invisible whether


they be thrones or dominion principality


or power all things were created by him


and for him. So notice the use of the


word in heaven and in the earth visible


and invisible. So we have visible and


invisible in the same place. Visible and


invisible in the same place. Hebrews


12:25-26.


[Music]


See that he refuse not him that


speaketh. For if they escape not who


refuse him that spoke on earth, much


more shall not we escape if we turn away


from him that speaketh from heaven whose


voice then shook the earth. And now he


had promised saying yet once more I'll


shake not the earth only but also


heaven. And this word, the particular


word, the phrase, the use of the word


yet once more signifies removing of


those things that are shaken as of those


things that are made that those things


which cannot be shaken may remain.


Hallelujah. So heaven and earth were


created together. Created together.


Heaven, earth, under the earth.


Cosmology is what the Bible teaches. Of


course, sin and death brought the under


the earth idea. Revelation 5:3. And no


man in heaven nor in earth neither under


the earth was able to open the book


neither to look there on. So because of


sin there is now the under the earth.


But in Genesis 1 verse one in the


beginning God created the heaven and the


earth. So we now have an under the


earth. The same revelations chapter 5


look at verse 13 he uses that word. Then


we go to Exodus as well. Now we did do


this


proper theological study last year where


we taught on unseen forces. This is


unseen forces part two teaching on being


wise and strong with his power. So I


just need to do all this disclaimer for


those who are new amongst us. Revelation


5:13. And every creature which is in


heaven and on the earth and under the


earth. So he uses that whole phrase in


Exodus chapter 20


where they were told,


"Thou shalt have no other gods before


me." Verse four, "Thou shalt not make


unto thee any graven image or any


likeness of anything that is in heaven


above, that is in the earth beneath or


that is in the waters under the earth."


So the waters in that context used to


explain under the earth because the


water under the sea. Ancient men,


ancient way of thinking. Hallelujah. So


heaven, earth, under the earth. And we


saw that at the name Jesus, every knee


bow, we have authority in heaven and on


earth. Hallelujah. We have authority in


heaven and on earth. And we see that the


use of the word uh Elohim, we said, is


used for Yahweh, the God of Israel. It's


used for the sons of God as a company.


It's used for the God and goddesses of


the nations. It's even used for devils


and demons. The word Elohim is not a


statement or a word to worship. Never


worship Hebrew or Greek words. They are


just words. Amen. Because in the English


when you say gods and you say God is


still the same god. That's what it is in


the Elohim. So it's it's use is the


context that determine who you're


speaking of. Deuteronomy 32:17 the


devils were called Elohim there. Genesis


35:7 angels or the angel of Yahweh. The


dead departed human somewhere is called


an Elohim in 1 Samuel 28:13.


So and in our last year teaching we


repeated that the gods were not created


to be worshiped. They were never to be


worshiped. In fact they were to worship


the God who created them. Psalm 29:1


Psalm 97:7 it says worship him all ye


angels. Worship him all ye gods. So they


were to worship God never to take


worship. When angels take worship or


supernatural beings take worship that's


how they become devils. God is their


creator. Nean 9:6 Psalm 148 verse1-5 we


read this text already uh he is their


king or what is called king of kings


lord of lords he has no equal is called


god of godsomy 10:17 let's read that a


bit just for refresher we've read that


before and see how it uh dovetails into


what we are speaking Deuteronomy chapter


10 and verse 17


for the lord Lord your God is God of


gods and lord of lords. A great God and


a mighty and a terrible regarded not


person not take reward. So God does not


do is not bias. Why did God know say God


is bias? Why did God answer this person


and not answer me? Why no he doesn't do


like that? He's God of gods,


Lord of lords. He's called the highest,


the all powerful. Psalm 18, the highest.


Luke chapter one, the power of the


highest. So is there anything too


difficult for God? Jeremiah 32:17,


nothing. I mean God is called all


powerful. Amen. So angels were never to


take worship. You're never to take


worship. Jesus said to the Satan,


Matthew 4:10, thou shall not tempt the


Lord your God. Thou shalt worship the


Lord your God. Shall worship the Lord


your God. Worship the Lord your God. So


the angels were made to take to not take


worship but to worship God. They were


not to take worship. Amen. And when


angels take worship, they become devils.


Deuteronomy 29:26,


he mentions that exact phrasing that


they were not to be woripped, not to


worship those gods of the nations. For


they went and serve other gods and


worship them, gods whom they knew not,


and whom he had not given unto them.


Hallelujah. So they they worship other


gods and that's the word supernatural


beings. Supernatural beings are not to


marry. Matthew 22:30 Genesis 19:5 we saw


that those uh men in Sodom wanted to


have relations sexual relations with


those angels in that came for Lot. So


the the very idea of it is deliberately


put in Genesis chapter 19 so that it it


filters your idea of the Genesis 6


narrative that is a bit very confusing


for many but however you want to explain


what happened in Genesis chapter 6 you


cannot remove supernatural perversion.


Uh angels are to serve man not deceive


man or or hurt man. So they were to


serve man and minister unto man. Hebrews


1:14, "Are they not all ministering


spirits sent to minister for them who


shall be hairs of salvation? And instead


of ministering to man and helping man,


they are now deceiving and hurting man


and ought not to be." So to whom you


yield yourself, you become slaves to


Romans 6:16. So, so instead of protect,


they are now hurting man and they are


now deceiving or harming man. Angels are


supposed to do the will of God, not


disobey God. But now we have


supernatural beings disobeying God.


And so the judgment


I mean look uh disobeying God's will.


That's very serious. 2 Corinthians 4


says the God of all blind the minds of


them that believe not lest the light. So


directly opposing God's will. Directly


God's will that all men be saved. But


Satan is directly opposing that will of


God. And that's not how they were made.


They were made to do the will of God.


And so again we said when angels take


worship they become devils. When angels


have sexual perversions with men they


become devils. When instead of serving


man they deceive hot man they become


devils. When they disobey or go against


God's will they become something else.


Hallelujah.


And we must remember that the heavens


were made to rule with the earth. And


the heavens function with the earth. But


now Job 15 says the heavens are not


pure. Always remember that things are


not in their perfect order. And that is


why we have to learn about unseen


forces. Things are not in their perfect


order. Things are not in their perfect


order. Things are not in their perfect


order anymore. Things are not in their


perfect order. things are not in their


so that whole idea people have of uh why


do good things happen to bad uh bad


people why do bad things happen to good


people I always tell you good things


happen to good people good things happen


to bad people bad things happen to bad


people and bad things happen to good


people it's just life now because um we


have light and darkness on the earth


good and evil on the earth hallelujah


Yeah, Job 15:15, he says, "He put no


trust in his sense. Yeah, the heavens


are not clean in his sight." That's


exactly it. So that whole uh


relaxation that people have, even God is


not confident that the angels are doing


always the right and not the good


angels, I mean all supernatural beings.


So he say he put no trust. In other


words, you can't just relax like that.


Giving you the uh background of that use


when he say he puts no trust in his


angels. is that was that relaxation we


have that uh as people we say today that


don't like Jesus Christ or God they say


universe will favor you say lie oh put


no don't put any trust in those things


that is faith what is mine is mine don't


do all those even god does not put any


trust there cuz the heavens are not


clean life will not always in fact the


best of people the hardest working


people don't always get the things that


they should get you think that


everything will just favor them but


everything don't always just favor them.


And you must realize because the


supernatural beings that are supposed to


administrate the proper order and


functioning of things are not all in the


light


are not all in the light. And God has


not created more angels.


So the balance is not the same. So the


ratio is not the same. So uh


supernatural beings that has specific


functions, not all of them are in the


light. They are those that have those


specific function. Some of them are not


in darkness having that function. No


longer in light having that function.


Always remember that the proper


functioning of things are not the same.


Amen. And that's where in the teaching


we said Psalm 82 where he calls out


those supernatural beings for failure to


to judge properly. And he says God


stands in congression of the mighty. He


judgeth among the gods. and which some


very lazy interpreters of the Bible have


said this this is men. Oh boy, we have


to remove all the text. I mean the


context is very obvious that it's not


men. Jesus even uses it when he was


trying to tell them that if angels were


called God, how come you say I'm not


God? John chapter 10 when he says if he


called them gods of and the scripture


cannot be broken, how can you be having


an issue with me being God?


Sam God incorrection of the mighty jud


among the gods. How long will you judge


unjustly and accept the presence of the


wicked? This is not what it ought to be.


Abi all right the presence of the wicked


are not supposed to be accepted. He said


defend the poor and the fatherless. Why


are the poor not being defended? Why are


the fatherless not being do justice to


the afflicted and needy. That's what it


ought to be. Deliver the poor and the


needy. Read them out of the hand of the


wicked. They know not that would they


understand. They walk on in darkness.


The foundations of the earth are out of


course. Always remember that that the


foundations of the earth are out of


course. It is not how God founded the


earth. That's not how the earth is. In


fact, Jesus's favorite language is from


the beginning it was not so. From the


beginning, it was not so. So, always


remember that it is not how it was made


to be. Things are no longer the way it


was.


Where things are the way they ought to


be is in the spirit or in Christ. And


that is enforced by power because the


foundations of the earth are out of


course. Always have that in mind because


many in the world community now people


who are given to enemy die strong man


submit your power they know all of that.


In fact it's now like only people who in


quote what they call spiritual warfare


which is not what spiritual warfare


means. Spiritual warfare is Christian


living is not


spiritual warfare is Christian living


and winning souls. It's in the preaching


of the gospel and I've taught you this


extensively.


Uh uh so sir when we cast out devil


that's what we call warfare. Nothing


wrong in casting out devil. You should


cast out devil. But that's not how the


Bible explains warfare. When it say the


weapons of our warfare are not counter


but mighty true God. Every time the


Bible uses warfare is not in that


context. It's not power encounters that


is calling warfare. It's not power


encounters. And we get the idea which


some pastors don't get because they just


want to sound very scholastic with


scriptures. They don't always want to


get where the other people are coming


that are in ignorance. I get it because


you cannot have a power ministry and not


know those things. And you can to now


deny it is why they have to ask some of


these world men as they call themselves


today. Do you still believe in miracles?


Do you move in? Of course, just to


explain things properly because if you


know except you are saying everything


you did before was fake which now begins


to look like this is all a joke or


something.


Amen. So things should be explained


properly. The foundations of the earth


are out of course are out of course.


Hallelujahise.


So it is not it is unstable.


The foundations of the earth are what?


Are now unstable. It's not how


are out of course.


They have been moved. The word out of


course there was first used in Leviticus


25:35. And if thy brother be waxing poor


and falling in decay, that's the word


falling in decay. The foundations are


falling in decay. Is the word used that


word out of cause is used in Deuteronomy


32:35 as shall slide.


Their foot shall slide in due time.


That's the word. The foundations have


sliding.


Psalm 13:4, "Let my enemy say, I have


prevailed against him, and those that


trouble me rejoice when I am moved." Is


the word moved. Be moved.


He


and in my prosperity I said, I shall


never be moved. Psalm 30:6. So the the


foundations of the earth have been


moved.


Did you get it? The foundations of the


earth have been moved. That's what he's


saying. So when you see how he uses that


phrase,


you see that same idea again in Job.


Job 38. Just go to Job 38.


Then the Lord answered Job out of the


white wind and said, "Who is this that


darkeneeth counsel by words without


knowledge?" Because Job was asking a lot


of questions and wondering why is things


the way they are. Job 38. So who is this


that darkens counsel by words without


knowledge? Get up now, thy loins like a


man, for I would demand of thee. Answer


me. Answer thou me. Where was thou when


I laid the foundations of the earth? Did


you see it? All right. declare if thou


has understanding.


Who had laid the measures thereof? If


thou knowest, or who has stretched the


line upon it, whereupon are the


foundations thereof fastened?


Who laid the cornerstone thereof? When


the morning stars sang together, and all


the sons of God shouted for joy, or who


shut up the sea with door, when it broke


forth, as it had issued out of the womb,


when I made the cloud, the darkness


thereof, and take darkness a swaddling


band for it, and break up for for it my


decreed place, and set bars and doors,


and said, hitherto shall thou come, but


no further, and yet


shall thy proud waves be stayed. Hast


thou commanded the money since thy days,


and caused the daypring to know his


place, that it might take hold of the


ends of the earth, that the wicked might


be shaken out of it. It turned as clay


to the seal, and they stand as rammet,


and from the wicked their light is


withholding, and is and the high arm


shall be broken. Hast thou entered into


the springs of the sea, or has thou


walked in the search of the depth? Have


the gates of death been opened unto


thee? And has thou seen the doors of the


shadow of death? This is a supernatural


worldview context. So don't take any of


the words literally. See it in the


supernatural setting.


Where is the way where light dwelleth?


As for darkness, where is the place


thereof? Thou shouldest take it to the


bounds thereof.


So he says a lot of things.


Then you go to verse 33. Knowest thou


the ordinances of heaven.


Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven.


The word ordinance is the word statues.


That is used to explain what to be


followed. how something uh an


instruction how you follow the


instruction or is used uh that word


statues is also used to explain certain


feast certain ordinances. So when they


keep the feast it was to remember this.


So this is used to explain this. This is


an ordinance to explain this. That's the


whole setup there. So when he says,


"Hast thou


knowest thou the ordinances of heaven?


Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven?"


So the can thou set the dominion thereof


on the earth? Are you seeing it?


You don't have a Bible.


So do you have knowledge of the laws of


heaven? That's what he's asking Job. Do


you have knowledge of how things ought


to go? Do you do do you even know what


you are talking about?


So when he says knowest thou the


ordinances of heaven


that word the ordinances of heaven there


ordinances remember is synonymous with


the word laws statues they all


synonymous Abby. All right.


So, do you know the laws of the heavens


or can you set up their rule over the


earth? That's the idea. So, do you know


how the heavens rule the earth?


Do you know how the supernatural


rules over the natural? And the man of


course couldn't answer any of the


questions. Uh, can thou lift up thy


voice to the cloud? An abundance of


water may cover thee. So do you


understand the secrets of power? Do you


know how to speak and cloud the same?


Because these are the things Elijah knew


where I could say if I be a man of fire


come down. So do you that was I'm


putting it in in a easy do you know the


secrets of power? Do you know how


can thou send lightnings that they may


go and say unto the year we are? So you


see Moses knew these things. So he's


showing there that they are men of they


are people who understood the laws of


heaven, the ordinances of heaven, how


things work.


So knowest thou the ordinance of heaven


can thou set the dominion thereof on the


earth?


Did you get it? Yes sir.


Psalm 148. See the idea of it. Psalm 148


from verse one to verse. Praise ye the


Lord. Praise ye the Lord from the


heavens. Praise him in the heights.


Praise him in the heights. Praise him in


the heights. Praise ye him all his


angels. The word heights there is


synonymous with the word heaven. In the


heights, praise ye him all his angels.


Praise ye him all his hosts. Praise ye


him son, moon. Praise him all ye stars


of light. Praise him ye heavens of


heavens and ye water that are above the


heavens. Let them praise the name of the


Lord. For he commanded and they were


created. He commanded and they were


created.


He had also, now look at verse 6, he had


also Psalm 148, look at verse 6. He had


also established them forever and ever.


He had made a decree which shall not


pass.


Praise the Lord from the earthy dragons


and all the fire, hail, snow, vapor,


stormy wind, fulfilling his word.


Hallelujah.


He had also established them forever and


ever. He had made a decree which shall


not pass.


Now Psalm 119,


Psalm 119 verse 89. Forever, oh Lord,


thy word is settled in heaven. Did you


notice that? Forever, oh Lord, thy word


is settled in heaven. Pay attention. The


word is settled. So the word is a


defining matter as it relates to how


things function. Thy faithfulness is


unto all generation. Thou hast


established the earth and it abided.


They continue this day according to thy


ordinances. So when people say all


manner of wonderful things, God is not


involved. So uh I mean look at the


farmer. He farms,


does everything he does, but ultimately


it is still powers beyond his control


that determines a harvest. Well, I don't


believe there's any god. I don't believe


in any unseen thing. There it it is


written into the ordinance. It's written


to how the earth functions. You cannot


remove the place that the creator set


certain principles at work.


They continue this day according to thy


ordinances.


For all are thy servants.


Hallelujah. So there is an order. It's


the same thing. You jump up, you come


down. It's an ordinance. It's an


ordinance. And that's why in the natural


the scientists study those physical


ordinances. And that's why you now have


this law, this law. And even in


chemistry for you see all the different


laws.


You say, "Oh no, that's no longer a law.


That is a this." You see all those uh


hypotheses or laws


because science studies what is seen


what can be heard felt to five senses.


Science is the study of the five five


senses. So how the five senses how the


interaction of all we see


feel taste smell comes together is being


interacted and so okay based on this


okay how did this lead to this? How did


this lead to this?


Now,


of course, science have improved today.


So, there are many questions that we can


give answers to.


Many questions we can give answers to,


that certain people could not give


answers to.


Look at Ecclesiastes 11.


As thou knowest not what is the way of


the spirit or how the bones do grow.


As thou knowest not the way of the


spirit


nor how the bones do grow in the womb.


Now of course uh doctors gynecologist I


mean uh the experts in that medical


field can give you certain explanations.


Surely they can. Now you grow your


physical leg out. Now grow your physical


and use those explanations. So there is


still something as much as oh this is


supposed to lead to this. Why is this


something supposed to lead to this


something? Give the answer to that one.


He say that's just you end up having to


say that's just how it is. That ending


up saying that's how it is is what God


was using to talk to Job.


Babies should not come out from the womb


and one neck is bent. That's not how


babies should come out from the womb.


You can already see that the ordinances


of there. So now we have conjoin twins.


We have this one. We have this issue. If


you don't uh they tell you you have to


take folic acid very well. Now of course


because of how people eat today. Those


days people did not need to. But at same


time medical science have gotten better


over the years where you say our mothers


used to give birth easily. The children


used to always die easily too and they


say is cool is this one is this one.


There are different names for its


us that married as they are born many SS


and some the one that survive survived


one not survive have gone they say is


evil spirit many of those things because


they didn't know any of those things


were just anybody see anybody you join


then eat this then there were certain


things that they ate that flush their


system I mean closer to the herbs using


all of those things it had its place but


to rubbish The improvements that have


happened in time is not fair and it's


even ungodly to try to do that with


scriptures as some pastors do trying to


rubbish science. The Bible is not


against science. It's just precience.


It's just premoding. He's not against


those things because those things are


part of man exercising himself and


knowing more about how things work on


the earth. So as thou knowest not what


is the way of the spirit or how the


bones do grow in the womb of her that is


with child even so thou knowest not the


works of God who maketh all. So in other


words there are many things people do


not know. The same way in the morning so


thy in the evening with not thy hand for


thou knowest not whether shall prosper


either this or that or whether they both


shall be like good. So certain certain


principles


now I don't know materologist


as we call them today who are able to


predict the way of the wind and they


tell you this but how come with all that


predictions there are some they see


could not tell that's what he's saying


there you don't know the way of the wind


the way of the spirit that's why I use


the word spirit there which in this


context funny enough is not spirit of


god the way of the spirit there's a way


of the wind. The physical wind is just


the word ruak


is used for spirit is the word wind is


can use for spirit can be used for can


be used for certain emotions are also


used like that the context always


determines the usage but today there are


much improvement but see how this man


use it to speak to his audience directly


and all of them would have answered that


s we don't know now of course today even


though today we can say with many


improvement we can answer some of these


question but we still can't answer all


of them authoritatively


That is what he's bringing there.


So how the bones form in the womb of a


pregnant woman.


So there's a way God does his things.


There's a way God does his things. And


we can uh


Isaiah, let's read that text for you.


Isaiah 55.


Let the wicked forsake his way, and the


unrighteous man histo. Let him return


unto the Lord and he will have mercy


upon him and to our God. For he will


abundantly pardon for my ways and for my


thoughts are not your thoughts neither


your ways my ways say the Lord. For as


the heavens are higher than the earth so


are my ways higher than your ways and my


thoughts than your thoughts.


So it's not because God does not want


our thought to be his thought. He's just


setting an order that God's thought is


not our thought. But we can make our


thoughts become his thoughts. Or we can


think his thoughts. We can rise up. But


he will not come to that level of flesh


or canality. We will rise to the level


of spirituality.


For as the heavens are higher than the


earth, so are my ways higher than your


ways, and my thoughts than your


thoughts. For as the rain cometh down


and the snow from heaven and return it


not tether, you don't see water on the


ground going back up.


So again, that is also an ordinance.


That's how it was set.


From ground is going up. No, it's from


up down, not down up.


Up down.


All right. So the heavens higher than


the earth. The heavens rule the earth.


That's set up. And that's what he's


telling Job, you do not know. So Psalm


82 when he says the foundations of the


earth are out of course. We say but I've


said you are gods all of you are train


of the most high but you shall die like


men. That is also another issue because


they were not supposed to die but now


they are going to die. That's already


showing that things are not as they were


made to be. Shall fall like men fall


like one of the princes. Arise of God


judge the earth for thou shall inherit


all nations. So it's the same setup.


Hallelujah. Praise God. So where people


ask


why is this thing working the way it is


working?


See Jesus using that same setup in the


book of Luke.


Luke 13:16.


And ought not this woman being a


daughter of Abraham whom Satan has bound


load this 18 years be loosed from this


bond on the Sabbath day. So Jesus said u


not so this woman who Satan has bound


this 18 years


be loosed from that infirmity.


And when he said these things on,


all his averses were ashamed and all the


people rejoice for all the glorious


things that were done by him.


Did you get it?


So woman, thou art loose.


That's Luke 13.


woman thou were loosed from thy


infirmity.


Verse 11. And behold, there was a woman


which had a spirit of infirmity


18 years. A spirit of infirmity 18


years. And was bowed together and could


in no wise lift up herself.


So was that natural?


That's not natural. Now spirit of


infirmity caused it. But was it


affecting the natural? So something


spiritual can affect the natural, the


spirit of infirmity. And Jesus say,


"Ought not this woman whom Satan has


bound."


Mark chapter 9


where that man said uh I brought him to


your disciples and if they can they


could not do anything and he said if


that Jesus now corrected in Mark 9:23 if


thou can believe all things are possible


to him that believes. So all things are


possible with God and all things are


possible with you that believes the two


places where all things are possible. So


So the man with God has power with God.


The man with God has power with God. So


we will share God's attributes will have


God results.


We would have God results. So Mark


chapter 9 and verse um


24. And straight away the father of the


child cried and said with tears, "Lord,


I believe, helped out my own belief." So


it's I I really believe that's why I


brought him but help my own belief and


messed up. I'm just I don't like what is


happening with my child. And when Jesus


saw that the people came running


together, he rebuked the foul spirit. F


O U L. The foul spirit, the unclean


spirit,


saying unto him, "Thou dumb and deaf." H


dumb and deaf. The man is not The boy is


not dumb. The boy is not deaf.


The boy is not dumb. The boy is not


deaf.


Pick at him and throw at him the


not the correct not the correct


discerning of spirit


because that was the issue. The boy had


a deaf and dumb spirit because that was


the intention of the spirit to lead him


to the place where he's totally invalid


in all ways


from being moonruck to the now deaf dumb


having no use of his senses. So he said


thou deaf and dumb spirit I charge thee


come out of him and enter no more into


him. And the spirit cried and ren him


saw and came out of him and he was as


one dead in so much that many said he's


dead. And Jesus took him by the hand and


lifted him up and he arose.


Notice that


deaf and dumb.


Luke 7 and verse 21.


And in the same hour he cured many of


their infirmities and plagues


and of evil spirits. And unto men that


were blind he gave sight. Notice and of


evil spirits. He mentions that many of


those infirmities were caused by evil


spirits.


Evil spirit.


Hallelujah.


So many things can affect many physical


things we see can be affected by


spiritual things. So when we say unseen


forces, unseen forces basically deals


with the influences and the powers of


the unseen. That's simply it. The


influences and the power of the unseen


whether it be of God or of supernatural


beings. Whether it be of God, of


supernatural beings or of man.


Threefold. Whether it be of God or


supernatural beings or of man. an


influence and a power and in that order


an in so unseen forces deals with the


influences and the powers of the unseen


whether that unseen be of God


supernatural beings or man of God we


have the spirit of God


supernatural beings they are now divided


to two part and the bad ones what you


call good angels angels of light angels


of dark stars of light stars of darkness


Powers of darkness, powers of light, the


angels, good angels, bad angels. Ab


and the bad ones we should what?


Rebuke or accept,


resist, cast out, deal with, judge,


beautiful. So we have bring it under.


Come on.


Now on sin forces of man will now be


where we have sorcerers, magicians and


we saw pet Paul put that ele in his


place because the ele was the the one


conjuring that did not allow suspense


and power coming from a man in


cooperation with unseen forces in that


are negative abi. So it's unfortunate


that when people hear unseen forces they


always thinking to the negative. No,


think it in all the areas. It's not


negative. There's negative and positive


unseen forces. Amen. Hallelujah. So


influences and power that is from the


unseen.


Hallelujahise.


Amen.


So something to really really think


about. So when we hear uninformed people


say things like ah there's nothing like


that. Ah, there's nothing like that. You


really want to make all of us stupid.


You really want to just as well throw


away the Bible because there are so many


stories within the Bible that you cannot


say that there is no unseen hand behind


the events.


In Acts chapter 12, the church as they


began to pray, the Bible says an angel


was an angel came to the prison.


Peter's shackles fell off, took Peter by


the hand and the gate opened on his own


accord and let Peter out. The doors are


locked. Oh, the next day they can't find


Peter in the prison. How can they say is


natural? In fact, the other one earlier


it says the doors were still shut with


all the safety and the next day when


they came the doors were shut but there


was no Peter inside. So which door did


he pass? You read the Bible and we don't


want to believe this kind of things. How


can you? And that's why we take our life


for joke.


Don't do that.


Now during the week there was a horrible


tragedy about a plane crash. One person


survive. Now that shows you one person


can survive. One person can survive. I


choose to always be that one person who


survives.


Don't know what the man knows, who


believes, who is with who what he have,


who he is, who's he belong to. But


that's a lot of


That's a lot.


Believe. Oh.


Every man now, every man knows what he


believes.


Amen. This morning I I've responded to


the message, but she's hearing me now.


Sent a message about the bike tumble


down and no injury. Those things are not


ordinary. Now you hear stories like that


then the and he said she was thinking


about it that that always say my life is


not in the sea. All of a sudden the


accident roll towards the caterpillar


but preserved the bike man and the rest


hot bike injured. Bike did not walk


again. Bikeman injured but no scratch


and even the cake in her hand was not


destroyed.


My life is not in the sea. My life is


not all those kind of things. No no no I


don't believe. Don't be using your life


be doing I don't believe


same way we saw that the brother shared


the story of the gas was left on she be


believing oh be be believing oh be


speaking oh say


how come at that moment she said the way


the backb was she was just thinking


about that thing pastor has been


teaching on sin forces that she wrote in


the testimony to me that you say it


maybe on Sunday next week we take


testimony so you heard from my mouth and


acted on that entered our mind and


started saying it. My life is not on the


road


now. Stand up and on hot.


That's not luck.


Yeah. You be lucky like that now. You


not great day lucky like that. I mean,


you know how people always use their


life to be doing play and they hear the


stories we share. They hear the things


that we say. No, no, no. count me out


this I don't think he's just see God is


no respector of person God is no


respector of person he's not God is not


looking at somebody's face as the slang


will say not the look with your face God


is not you say oh


he's not doing that it's not selecting


he that cometh to God must believe that


he is and that is a rewarder


we will engage and so on Wednesday I


began telling you how we engage and I of


course in last year's series we taught


10 things and we ended with attitudinal


cooperation. We ended with I gave you a


lot of things about engaging on sin


forces. However, now we're talking about


being wise and strong with his power.


And we said you can be strong in his


power when you know nothing about faith.


And I told you one way we can be strong


with the power of God is by faith. Is by


faith. It's by faith. And faith is not


uh is not lock. Faith is not something


that is invisible that we can say uh I


can't see the faith. We can see faith.


Faith can be seen.


Faith can be seen.


We can see faith. Oh, we can see faith.


We can see Matthew chapter 9. That man


that was sick of the passi that was


lying on the bed. The Bible say Jesus


seeing their faith said unto the sick of


the pass son be of good cheer thy sins


be forgiven thee. The man may have been


far older than Jesus by physically but


Jesus that is a trigger for compassion


is all right. Son be of good cheer.


Identify the person to yourself. Son be


of good cheer. Thy sins be forgiven. Of


course he is the creator God just


working as a man. So say son be of good


cheer.


Faith can be seen.


Faith can be seen. Faith can be seen.


Oh,


we can see it.


We can perceive it.


Paul perceiving that the man had faith.


The same heard Paul speak who selfishly


beholding him and perceiving that he had


faith to be Acts 14:9 Paul perceived


that the man had faith to be he said


with a loud voice stand upright on thy


feet and he leaped and walked because he


perceived the man had faith the man I


cannot walk why am I why you telling me


to stand on my feet if I could stand


would I not stand no foolishness like


that cuz he had faith to be healed faith


to be healed he was ready that that


means Paul will move here the man will


move be looking at him ready told you


the story of the lady who had stroke and


was used as an example in my meeting in


Potacot that's the first to come out


didn't matter to the power of God


because she didn't it was later on her


own unbelief now try to set in she now


after I had prayed she had started doing


what she could not do then


when I was praying for other people in


the healing line I now said any after


doing many other things anybody else


that I seek


I saw her again and I said what are you


doing she say I used to feel I said but


are you feel anything again he say oh so


if we have waited to that time she would


not have been imagine she had come


without oh would have prayed the normal


prayer say add me to the list of pastor


that prayed for her but never ready to


take because lambo to take from the


power of god power can be released but


you take from it


you appropriate it into you that this is


it or this is it this will work this


will work I refuse to to accept


something else


you know we can faith can be seen that


idea where we feel faith cannot be seen


look at Matthew 16


Jesus was talking about something else


then Jesus said unto them take heed and


beware of the lev of the Pharisees and


Sadducees verse 6 and they reasoned


among themselves saying it is because we


have no bread which when Jesus perceived


he said unto them oh you of little faith


why reason you among yourself because


you have brought no bread the way you


reason we can tell you don't have faith


the way you reason so you see it's very


for me very easy to tell people who have


faith very easy to tell if a man is


serious in what he says he believes


very easy just let the person talk you


will know if the person has faith just


let the person talk let the person


express themsel and if if they are


faking it you will also tell you will


know that like Jul said you have


language you don't have faith the man


John came in to pray for that woman who


was bed reading and the woman was I I


know I'm healed I know I'm strong I know


the same way with today we say my enemy


is sick man and he said they told J turn


to the father the husband and said why


did you call me if your wife is okay


just get She could not. So he said, "You


have language. You don't have faith."


There's language. That's what many


people have. They have language. You


have not done anything that shows you


want to come out from the bed. You say,


"I I believe that's I believe."


You are ready to receive. But no,


and people have more language


and as you shake them up a bit, you see


that it's just language. I know God is


going to do it. I know. No, God is not


going to do anything. You don't really


believe do anything there. Just stay


with your medication. If you have to ask


me sir, should I continue taking the


medicine? That's already shows you don't


have faith. Now that already shows it


has not come and there's nothing wrong


with taking your medication. So complete


it.


Complete it for God's sake. Should I?


Should I not? Should I? Sir, sir, I I I


don't really know if I should do the


operation. Me, you call me. I always say


to do operation. Just go. You find


another pastor. I will never tell you to


do operation. You you call me for


operation. Am I a doctor?


Oh, that's how pastors put yourself in


trouble now. Am I a doctor? You called


me for that is not my field. My feed is


the power of God.


Hello. Hello pastor sir. We want to do


an operation sir. I don't know what you


are saying. I'm saying operation since


you since you saw Dr. Eos are there.


Confuse me for my in-law. Since she


don't know


[Laughter]


you put daughter in front of my name.


Ah, no I'm not. Ah. Hello. Hello. Hello.


Hello, sir.


Yes, sir. Sir, they have said it's is


only an operation that can can solve


this issue. Wow. All right. Let them do


it. Sir. Sir. Daddy. Are you with me?


I'm with you. So, we can go ahead. Sure.


Call me and give me only give me


lifelines like I like I'm boxed to a


war. It's only you that do that one. You


and your household that does that box to


the wall. I never unboxed to the war.


Even the man that they gave 15 years he


turn and face the war. go out to the


years you see they have told I don't


know the and people must learn how to


engage because that's how you know they


don't have faith the whole issue with


sir I don't know what they are saying


I'm hearing a lot of rubbish in this aha


then you will hear so if it's a husband


and husband and wife issue they had ah


what is your wife saying


you won't believe what pastor Say hi. So


pastor hates me like that.


Something that we say it was fatal. I


say they should walk in fatal. Pastor


hates me. Husband have said pastor or


the wife say I don't know. So what are


both of you agreeing? Say sir we have


not agreed anything. You are the head of


the I push it back to the man. You are


the head of the so what are you deciding


to do? But you know what go say cut my


call be go.


Let's know and people know like that say


have spoken to my wife have I say put


your hand there that's different setup


in the name of Jesus


hear ye the word of the lord


baby turn into position


uh I'm I'm going to tell you obviously


do what you are going to do you are not


we're not doing faith here now but if we


are doing faith


I remember telling Somebody call me


another 3 hours. Say we I go to sleep.


So we prayed now. So call me another 3


hours. I'm praying for your matter at 3


hours. You they get the issue.


We don't know what is going to happen.


Is it what is going to You don't know


what is going to happen. Papa, you give


me assignment. You can't leave me. Is it


Is it me that needs the miracle? Is you


and faith you you can see the motions of


it. I remember getting that call from


outside Ben city. I'm there with my


mother right now.


Her life is leaving her. But we are here


rebuking and we have listened to a lot


of your messages. Sir, just say


something sir.


I said what is her name?


Faith can be seen.


Faith can be seen.


faith can be seen.


Call for men who go again like that.


No sir, no sir, no sir. We know how many


years we believe for the baby. In the


name of he who died and rose again the


third day I head cough. I've not even


finished it. That's why I got I always


use that line these days. In the name of


he who died and rose the third day I the


baby started coughing. No, we know how


many years we believe for this thing.


What is this sympat? Do I don't I should


be letting sending handkerchiefs now say


sorry send me your postal address I


should send handkerchief no there's a


time for that that's why he say no if


you want if you want a sport commentator


I will be it to you cuz I'm I everywhere


if you want sympathy no man sympathize


like me if you want empathy I will give


you empathy I'm I'm naturally


intelligent now so I know how to be all


things


but That's not what you need. So now I I


I want to be and that's why every time


you guys call me that you like I never


noticed that your issue is big because I


expected that you are calling me because


you're in faith. Now I'm beginning to


realize that you were not in faith. So


now I'll be following you as you come


and say oh you are dead you are dying.


So you see how he sounds that's


demoralizing somebody is going down you


wanting to you talk up. So I always cuz


that's what Jesus taught us. Fear not.


That's always the first thing. But it's


even when somebody gives me the ultimate


and tells me s so which option that


there's no option you have given me now


you're saying which option you say


should we should see do the option


faith can be seen


s is all over s is all over s is all


over I don't know we can't pay we can't


pay


I'm going to leave or I'm going to leave


I'm going to leave or I'm going to leave


they are going to throw our load or they


are going to throw our load.


There's no space in my boy's quarter.


So you have friends stay in their house.


So say no sir any word. Ah any word? No


no there's no word. No word. Just like


any word for me say there's no word for


you.


There there are motions that show a man


has faith. Yes sir. blind Batimas. He


threw away the cloth he was using to


beg.


You're saying I'm not going back to this


begging life. And when they say don't


call on him, he cry the more with a loud


voice. Faith can be seen. Yes sir. It's


not pretense. Faith can be seen. There


are the emotions of faith. There are


actions.


There are actions. And that's why there


is the tensile nature of faith in the


Bible. Little faith, great faith, weak


in faith, strong faith. Because faith


can be seen. It can be quantified based


on what we are seeing you do.


It's all over. No, it's not. No, it's


not. Hallelujah. Praise God.


And that's why I like s I got a call


like that from one of our brothers


outside the country, a serious matter.


Ah, okay. Okay. Okay. So, I told him and


I like the way he was sound. He was not


sounding that hair. Sir told me ah this


person enemy or they plan something


wicked person in the office. I said


in the morning we'll talk I'll pray


about it. As I was praying the Lord said


to me as I was praying and doing match


over.


Yes. So you tread upon the head of your


enemy. Now that's match over. after


doing match over on where this thing is


coming even if it's mistake you would


protect us cover our mistakes and I was


praying I saw it I heard it


so during the the next day when he was


talking to me I said this is what the


Lord said this this this and that your


path will be exalted


that's how then the next day two days


later he tells me that everything went


fine I even got a a mail. He sent me the


mail. That's so you see anything could


have gone any other way.


Anything could have


but we always believe in the power of


God. Yes sir. And we need people who


know how to what do you say? What do you


It's not for church. Everyday life,


everyday life shows you how things will


not be, how things will not work. It's


for you to decide. Will I accept this


result or will I not accept it? I choose


to change it. I choose to not believe


this.


I choose to not believe this.


Amen. Amen. So based on how they reason,


they say, "Oh, you of little faith."


Based on how they reason, he say, "Oh,


you of little faith."


Amen. Amen. Look at Matthew chapter 8.


Or no, let's do Matthew 6 first. Matthew


6. Because when you were in secondary


school, when university, you could


believe God for your for your needs.


Now, because you earn 2 million, 1


million in a month, you can't believe


God anymore. You now trust in riches


now. Don't outgrow. We don't get better


in life to outgrow faith. We don't we


never outgrow faith. Huh? We never


outgrow faith. We never outgrow those


things. The same if you are living


outside the country will you need will


you e the one that they have uh people


wake up in the morning and they have


shot two persons don't they have


security CCTV camera around people talk


things you now know that really they not


really exposed as they think if it's


outside which outside the country is


that you have another outside the


country outside the country we see


violence we see crime we see people die


people sleep they don't wake up many


things happen too.


The same way people have this idea that


it's in Africa that there are devils.


So what is Halloween?


What are they celebrating in Halloween?


Oh, beautiful. So you are feeling we


need to have one in Africa too. The one


we have many festival to the gods here


never reach


all hallow day is the day for witchcraft


that time in October. It's just it's not


even hard. It's even in the dictionary.


You see it allows days. No, it's not


it's not say it's just too scared. It's


just too scared. No, those are howling


creatures that sponsor those things.


Powers of darkness. I thought it was


seen forces that that selfright


those those


coyotes all those foxes those sounds


that they selfright the powers of


darkness.


Don't say he's in Africa. He's not in


any Africa anything. He's mainly from


Africa. How did they know that one? How


did they know he's a reporter in in


Nigerian man?


You know what I mean? I mean, I'm just


trying not to call the


the woman writing that. How did he get


the idea to write that is from from


Bible?


Why people doing like this now?


I don't know how people have this idea


is balam is fromu


and balam from ejua


I don't even know how they combine that


and


Mas


from


Akoko Edo


from Ewatu village.


Then we have of course uh


uh Simon the sorcerer that is obviously


we know where he's from


from Anna brother


Okijah


I know you people have this you are


studying the you see are you see


Nigerian names in those


people just have amazing


so Babylon is Babylon looks like like


benic city. He said the master of the


magician is that is Daniel in ben


kingdom.


He's not now. So having that idea of oh


there are no devils abroad.


They joke


you are not a man.


You are trapped in the wrong body.


Break free. Break free.


I wake up in the morning. I feel I'm not


a male.


In my own opinion, Baba, we know what is


doing you. If we shake your hand, you


will not say that thing again. If we


shake your hand, we force.


There's different. If we shake your


hand, you will you get yourself back


like what's happening to me? Yeah.


sority as in our campus we just gathered


and we lit candles and we do not know


what happened.


We just draw


uh the penta dragon. We just we just do


we just drew this diagonal. We drew the


eye of Osiris. It was just what we saw


in a movie. Oh,


you they look for influence. You see


influence, you they run. What do you who


wakes up and be drawing diagram on the


one lighting candle? What you are


looking for? You will find


I mean what an im motor that man was.


I would have sang one of his song but


I'm wearing I cannot I have to pull the


cloth.


Ah the influence of God it will put you


between words. Ah God


so little faith.


So Matthew chapter 6 and verse uh 26 or


25 he said therefore I say unto you take


no thought for your life what you shall


eat or what you shall drink nor yet for


your body for what you shall put on is


not your life more than meat


and the body than raignment. Behold the


fowls of the air for they sow not


neither do they reap nor gather into


bands yet your heavenly father feeded


them. Are you not much better than they?


Which of you by taking thought can add


one cubit into his statue? And why take


he thought for ament? Consider the liies


of the field, how they grow. They toy


not, neither do they spin. And yet I say


unto you that even Solomon in all his


glory was not arrayed like one of these.


So let's do 256. Therefore I say unto


you, take no thought for your life, what


you shall eat, or what you shall drink,


not yet for your body. For what you


shall put on is not the life more than


meat and the body more than railment.


Observe that verse 26. Then jump to


verse 30, which is where I'm going. And


I says, "Wherefore, if God so clothe the


grass of the field, today is and


tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he


not much more clothe you, oh ye of


what?"


Oh, you of little faith. Did he bring


faith into the issue? Yes, sir. Oh, ye


of little faith. Little faith. Little


faith. Holy Ghost.


O L I G O S used to explain little.


Puny faith. You lack confidence in God.


So the tensile nature of faith and we


can see it when a man is in anxiety is


not in faith. It's not in faith. When


there's all this tension, worry, we


don't know. Hey,


oh,


oh, I don't know if this will work. Hey,


it will not work. Oh, hey, you are not


in faith. And we can and I told you how


we undo all of that. Revelation


knowledge is faith food. That's why you


feed on God's word. Revelation knowledge


is faithful. You feed on God's word.


And revelation knowledge is more than


just uh what does God's word have to say


as it were what I read. It's actually


what you read jumping out of the page to


you. That's revelation knowledge.


Revelation is what you are reading will


jump out on the page and it will be that


real and tangible to you. You know that


ah God have said it or God have said it.


God's word have come or God's word have


come.


That's why we can always tell people


when I see them in those I always tell


them what do you believe? What do you


know? What have you seen? What have you


heard?


Many times I hear nothing. They just


smile and say sir we trust God. See this


one go day there 10 years


day there 5 years you are you are


elongating the time there must be


something you are holding on to and


telling yourself no I trust God I know


what God have said I know what God have


said I know what God have said I know


hallelujah


faith is an action


acting on God's word so we can always By


your actions, we can tell if you have


faith. By your reasoning, by your


speaking,


we can tell if you have faith. It can


always be seen. Look at Matthew chapter


8. Just sticking with Matthew a bit.


Matthew 8.


And behold, there arose a great tempest


in the sea. Verse 24. In so much that


the ship was covered with the waves, but


he was asleep. And his disciples came


unto him and awoke him, saying, "Lord,


save us. We perish."


Now, we're supposed to call on the Lord.


So, they call on him. But notice, we


perish. Why do you have to think you are


going to perish? So, look at the answer.


And he said unto them, why are you


fearful, oh you of little faith? See,


they were fearful.


You see, fear we can all things can be


seen from the way you are talking. fear.


There's this fear, this anxiety, this


worry. We can tell you are not in faith,


sir. We can tell you are not in faith,


sir. Oh, you of little faith. Then he


arose, rebuked the wind and the sea, and


there was a great camp. I will fear.


Though a host were encamped about me, in


this will I I mean know how to


counteract fear.


In fact, the Bible says, "Be not afraid


of sudden fear." Even sudden fear that


used to grip somebody don't fear that


sudden fear because sudden fear that


come be not afraid of sudden fear. So as


sudden fear hit you we sudden fear hits


everybody we bounce that one away not be


me say no you answer it back. No not me.


Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen. Hallelujah.


That's Proverbs 3:25. Be not afraid of


sudden fear, neither of the desolation


of the wicked when it cometh. The Lord


shall be thy confidence, and shall keep


thy food from being taken. Hallelujah.


Be not afraid of sudden fear.


Sudden fear.


That's what happened when they told that


Gyrus, "Your daughter is dead. Trouble


not the master anymore." The Bible say


immediately Jesus said fear not only


believe rebuke you answer that sudden


because the daughter is sick now the


daughter has died matter has gone to


worse but it matters not to the power of


God


matters not to the power of God get up


rise up hallelujah Praise God.


Lord,


we can not all crying


shows you are serious about your


solution. Many crying shows that you are


ready to die in your problem.


That woman could have brought her


emotions. And when we teach the tensile


nature of it like this, it begins to


look like, "Oh, we are heartless."


Because you are not serious with your


own life. Because that woman came with


all our emotions. Thou son of David,


have mercy on me. Jesus answer not a


word. She even try to use connection.


She's not a Jew, but she said son of


David. Wait a That is not your calling


card of a gentile. She's coming from the


uh coming from the Jew road and you have


a gentile woman and three things as I've


taught you in that story. If that thing


is done to you, sir, you're not going to


receive miracle.


And that's why Jesus called it great


faith.


Hallelujahise.


So we talked about faith as sight. Abby,


faith as authority of the word speaking.


The Canaanite woman aggressive faith is


needed. We taught that as well where we


say faith was worship


you depend on the mercies of God. Let's


look at that. Matthew chapter 15.


There was something she did. Say it's


just did nothing. It's just great faith.


Matthew 15


4 21


Then Jesus went tense and departed onto


the coast of Ty and Sidon. And behold, a


woman of Canaan came out of the same


coast and cried unto him, saying, "Have


mercy on me, oh Lord, thou son of David.


My daughter is grievously vexed with a


devil.


Grieviously vexed with a devil. Oh boy.


grievously vexed with the devil under


the power of a demon. Kai


and he answered her not a word.


Did you see it?


He kept quiet


even to the extent that the disciples


say send her away. He answered her not a


word and disciples came and bes saying


send her away for she cried after us. He


answered her not a word. So he kept


quiet.


Then when he will finally answer, he


gave two replies that are not good.


I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of


the house of Israel.


What is that rejection? He said I'm not


anointed for you.


die. I'm not anointed for you. I'm not


anointed for you. I'm not sent to you.


What did the woman do? Then came she.


Look at actions. Then came she and


worshiped him saying, "Lord, help me."


You would have thought it would have


gotten better. See the second reply,


"Insult."


Silence to rejection to insult. Call


that dog. And he answered and said, "It


is not meat. This is Jesus. You can't


have more compassion than him. You can't


be more You can't have more character


than him. He is the character you are


trying to have." All right. Okay.


So, it is not me to take the children's


bread and cast it to dog. It is not me.


It is not right that I would take the


children's bread and give it to dogs.


Look at what she said in the words of


Martin Luther, not the king, the


reformer. He said she trapped Jesus with


his own words. Since you called me a


dog, even the dogs eat from the


since we are going to go that way sir.


Since you have called me dog


truth, Lord, he didn't say you lie. You


lie. You lie. You lie. Truth Lord. Yet


the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall


from their masters. Then Jesus answered


and said unto her, "Oh woman, great is


thy


beat unto thee, even as thou wil." And


her daughter was made whole from that


very hour.


Was there actions?


I don't know why you send pastor message


will not respond.


I don't respond. We be lucky the angel


of God due.


Sorry about that. And I'm not sorry.


Always know


pastor help me. No, no. Give me P now.


You'll be paying the P salary now. Say


you know a person should be organized.


Organize me now. Organize me. Organize


me. Pay the person on my behalf.


Some of those things are deliberate just


to see how much the person means what


they say. There are different motions. I


don't have to explain everything to you.


just to see how serious you are. Many


things are done to just to see how much


somebody will push, how hard you will


go, how and you and you fail flat. You


fell flat. Say you not respond to me. I


don't know what but you don't do


anything. So if you are not evil, why


are you always believing what you did?


You did not do anything. So why you


think you did something? What I did? You


respond to me. Oh God,


cry onto God.


No motion of faith at all.


When they say don't cry the more. We've


seen people like that say


I said pastor


don't let you cry the more


you know. No I don't know. I just walked


there. I told the usher that tall usher


very evil man. I I I told that tall


usher I want to see pastor and he just


sent me back. Church is for all. Uh


T for Jibbo Church is for is your money


in this church thief. Church is for


pray. Come to church pray. I mean for


people always know how to play those


nonsense card. Church is for church for


church is for what did you do to


contribute to this church standing of


what use are you to this church? Church


is for churches for really you bypass


common sense of doing things in governor


is for go now governor is for go and go


and stand in front of the convoy


anything you see you take governance for


the rulers are for even in developed


society I think you see developed


society now every developed society you


you can't you is a public servant go and


be doing public servant there


See all those arm that is dangling. It's


not his handle. Under that coat is gone


that facing you. It's fake handle.


There's no hand there. They wore it. The


gun is is like this.


That's how they train them in secret


service. Oh. You see that? Why does that


hand just look like it not be hand this


one that


so that you will not know now that


do things properly don't go against uh


protocol they say do it like this


later they say go and meet him he calls


you say no you can't tell me that you


can't tell me Ah baba calm down


just simple things simple motions are we


here


so silence rejection and insult


so Jesus looked cruel coldhearted to


that woman of course like I taught you


when I we did dogged in faith Jesus was


not being cruel to her because there's a


broader old testament context I mean so


she's from Thai and Sidon and there's


ancient bad blood between Israel and


that place


and Matthew wants you to think of Kaa


from Israel old time from Joshua time.


So the right thing he wants you to see


it from that angle because it's weird


that the Canaanite woman will call Jesus


a messianic name even call her Lord.


So Jesus will test her faith. That's


what he was doing.


Just a test. Faith can be tested.


Faith can be tested.


Faith can be tested.


Hallelujah.


I believe God.


Amen. Amen. Matthew 14


verse 31.


or 29. And he said, "Come." And when


Peter was come out of the ship, he


walked on the water to go to Jesus. And


when he saw the wind boisterious, and


was afraid and began to sink, he cried,


saying, "Lord, save me." And immediately


Jesus stretched forth his hand and


caught him, and said unto him, "Oh, thou


of little faith, wherefore did thou


doubt?" So he was already walking on


water. "Wherefore did thou doubt?"


Notice he gave it a name, little faith.


Faith can be seen. Put the Faith can be


seen. Oh.


Faith can be seen.


Faith can be


Faith can be seen. Proverbs 24:10. If


thou faint in the day of adversity, thy


strength is small. That's what we are


saying. So you build strength.


You build strength. Yes, sir. Thy


strength is small. Thy strength is


small. If it's in the in the day of


trouble,


the day of distress,


in the day of distress, you are weary,


you are fainting, you are confused, you


are dejected, you don't have any


strength.


You don't have any strength. Psalm 103.


You don't have any strength. Psalm 103


verse 20.


Bless the Lord, ye his angels that excel


in strength, that do his commandments,


hearkening unto the voice of his word.


Angels hearken to the voice of his word.


I mean, faith can be seen. Faith can be


used. It's not something mystical that


we can't see. No, faith can be seen.


Even in that place where they told Jesus


increase our faith, they were offended.


Offense, emotions can affect your faith.


Emotions can affect your faith.


How you believe, protect yourself


against those nonsense because it's


nonsense. So those things will affect


you. Now that you are been wallowing in


bitterness and offense, have you been


able to pray?


The answer is no.


Luke 17.


It is impossible


but that offenses will come but warn to


him to whom they come. It will better


for him that a milestone were what?


Are you there?


Are you there? Luke 17. Yes sir.


And if he trespass against thee seven


time in a day, and seven time in a day,


turn again to thee, saying, I repent,


thou shalt forgive him. And the apostle


said unto the Lord, increase our faith.


See where they brought increased faith


inside the context. He say, if you have


faith as small as a must seed. This is


not a matter of increasing faith. A


matter of are you using it? Because you


are thinking is about the faith itself.


It's about what you are doing with the


faith.


The tensile nature of faith is what you


are doing with the faith, not the faith


itself. Amen. What are you doing with


the faith? Look at Abraham now. The


Bible say being be not weak, he


staggered not. But you see Abraham, you


could see the staggering. One point he


says uh I will not have a child. The


woman gives him Hagar. He enters into


Hagar. The other moment the alza of the


steward of my house. I have no hair but


the steward of this my house is going to


be my hair. You could see Abraham


himself staggering in faith


but being strong in faith giving glory


to God. So Abraham had that same motions


too. Hallelujah. Praise God. Had that


same motions. What?


So there's the place of


faith. Faith can help us to be strong


with the power of God. Is that okay? And


the life of faith is not sense but of


revelation. Mark 11:23 it says, "You


shall say to this mountain, be thou


remove it to see and do not doubt in


your heart, but believe that those which


you say shall come to pass. You shall


have what you say." You shall have what


you say. We speak in faith. 22 say,


"Have faith in God. Whosoever shall say


to this mountain, have faith in God."


Have faith in God.


Tell your neighbor, use your faith. Use


your faith. Tell your neighbor, I can


see your faith. I can see your faith.


Always realize that we can see your


faith.


A husband can see the fate of the wife.


The wife can see the fate of the


husband. You can see it and say, "You


are not just in faith." And don't be


afraid to say things like that. Be in


faith.


Gloria Copelan jumped on Ken Copelan.


The way you are talking, you will kill


yourself. Kenneet,


you need wives like that. Said you don't


know this sickness is overwhelming me. I


don't know.


You're a man of God. You ought to talk


the same thing uh Jamie uh the wife of


and Mark, you need wives like that, like


that with the husband. The same thing


the husbands with the wife. You see


those they share those stories.


So you won't say that. We will not allow


that. Oh,


the same thing with the happy hunters.


Charles and Francis Hunter. You see


giving you stories of husbands and wife


standing in faith and say no no no you


can't say that


and right there say in the name of Jesus


rebuke it out of the body of the wife


out of the body of the husband stand in


faith faith can be seen faith can be


seen faith can be used so if we are


talking about being strong with the


power of God should we use our faith yes


sir should we use our faith yes sir


should we walk by faith yes sir


Yeah. And faith can be seen.


And angels are released when we walk by


faith. When we act in faith,


supernatural beings are released by our


faith.


Look at all the actions of faith that


different men of God did all through


scriptures.


See how supernatural beings were. We


will not answer thee.


And the fourth one did not show up


because they were in unbelief. The


fourth one showed up in the fire because


they were in faith.


The angel shut the mouth of the lions


because he say the Lord sent his angel


and shut the mouth of the lions. Oh


Daniel, the Lord whom you serve, was he


able to deliver you? Yes. Oh king, the


Lord whom I trusted sent his angels and


shut the mouth of the lion. The Lord


whom I trusted, I know whom I have


believed. You know who you trust. The


psalmist say happy is the man that has


trust in God. That mean you do better if


you can trust in God. And that's you you


and I. And we make faith look like a


passive thing. No, it's active. No, it's


active. Faith is an active thing. It's


only passive when is by in and by the


spirit by the gift of faith and I


passively


in faith but actively receive the


miracle. Amen. Amen. That's only when


faith is passive and that's by the


operation of the spirit because it's


beyond the renewal of my mind. But the


normal operation of faith is by the


renewal of your mind. To how to what


degree have I renewed my mind with God's


word. That's the degree I have faith.


That's the degree I have faith. I


believe God's word. I believe God's word


and I speak it. So when we say I want to


engage influences,


the angels are hearing. What are you


saying in that life and death situation?


What are you saying? In six trouble,


yeah, in seven, he will deliver me.


You just keep quiet.


A God that know tomorrow. Yeah. When you


are dead, he still knows tomorrow.


One is is God that knows tomorrow. of


all the things to pull out from your


ancestor


that one you went to go and pull out


right pull better things. Amen.


Hallelujah.


Be careful what you say in your heart.


Remember the birds of the air we fly.


I'm hearing it.


So suppose that useless club. That's


what you said. I heard you. I've marked


you. After this service I'm reading your


number. All of you saying that in your


mind I know you from those in blue.


So I mention the clothes you wore


supporting


rubbish clubs standing in the way. How


can a Christian serve devil um support


devil?


We are devil. What is the meaning of


that?


Please don't take us seriously before


you say there's a spiritual say I be I


be get out of here. This is not your


church. Get out.


Job chapter 5. We don't have mad people


here. Which one is now? It's football.


Which one is in the same way that you


know AI is sir? Madam madam. There are


no mad people here. Go to psychiatric


hospital. Get out of here talking. I'm


I'm wondering the people in the church


that listen to that woman. You know AI


is a demon. Uhhuh. Uhhuh. What is


happening now? Go to school now. Ah.


don't be doing this thing


until we seen with passion. Same way


they tricked our fathers into believing


that hair is from the marine king from


water and it's not wet. We is not wet.


It's well


in famine he shall redeem thee from


death. You will eat this scripture. Job


5:20. In famine, he shall redeem me from


death. And in war from the power of the


sword. Did you see it? Yes, sir. In


famine, he shall redeem me from death.


And in war from the power of the sword.


He shall redeem me from the power of the


sword. He shall redeem me from the power


of the sword. He shall redeem me. Remove


sword. Put gone now. It's gone that they


use today. He shall.


You will say it.


You say it, you say it, you cook


yourself with God's word in faith. He


shall deliver thee in six trouble. So


let's read from verse uh 19. He shall


deliver thee in six trouble. Yeah. In


seven there shall no evil touch you. You


see the way he use the word touch. He


personalize the evil because that is


evil that he sent.


That's evil that he sent. Touch you. I


explained that uh


um


we have authority over all the powers of


darkness


and in last last year I showed you that


there are beings associated with the


realm of the dead


and we talked about that. Then there are


beings that are also associated with


geographical dominion


what is called territorial spirit


princes of the nations. We looked at all


of that as well. Thirdly, we talked


about that there are beings associated


with idolatry or that opposes sacra


space. This is how you see the teaching


of of devils in Genesis to Malachi that


that the Greek text of the Bible might


reation just call demons devils. So you


it's but in Genesis to Malachi it is


very detailed and that's where you have


aazel he goat goat demons


even squawking or howling creatures wild


beasts liit all of those things ninth


monsters noon beds presence howling


creatures


are being used it's associated with


idolatry and opposing sacred space and


that's we see it with people who worship


those things and the biblical writer


wrote about those things.


Amen.


Because they sell fright, scary, creepy.


This they they sell it.


Fourthly, there are beings that threaten


the natural world


of which we have chaos beast, which he


mentions uh many chaos beast and


symbols. Levian the dragon. He mentions


all of those things. Job theory, thou


has slain Rahab in the sea. And he


mentions all of those things. We read


them in our last year teaching. Then


there are evil forces of nature that


sponsors diseases, natural disasters,


even to plague, sicknesses. And where I


showed you that that word when it says


the word plague and I show you in the


Hebrew word that plague there in Psalm


91 is used in the Canaanite mythology


even in the Ugaritic culture Syria


modern day Syria and all of those


regions today they worship as a deity


deba that is a deity that they worship


that sponsors plague that sends out


those things there's a supernatural


influence to some of those things which


is why Jesus was so loud bowed in high.


He said, "This is of the devil. This is


of the devil. This is of the devil."


Not, of course, not every plague is of


the devil. Hallelujah.


Of course.


And many times there can be a collab


just like the co I told you then is a


collab collaboration of the wickedness


of men and devils combined together.


That's why it was such a great evil


because two great forces combined


from the lab to wickedness to


fear and immediately the fear broke in


the hearts of people the numbers started


reducing and immedately people I beg I


beg I beg we need to be traveling I beg


I beg I beg you fly away because things


are because uh fear has torment


once the fear is first broken off


and these are uh things that some


persons aside from Jesus Christ try to


study and they tell the the woman you


have 6 month to live she began to live


her best life I'm talking about a movie


or a no real stories and you see and the


person began to be the joyful happy no


Jesus Christ so all of a sudden the


sickness disappeared


You see those proverbs, a merry heart, a


merry soul doeth well like medicine. All


those things don't have my countenance


does not matter how I feel, how I think.


How can your countenance not matter?


Those are the first things that reflect


on the body and your body reflect your


countenance. You say it does not matter.


Your body is basically a mirror of your


countenance. That's why we can see your


mood in your face. We can see it. So it


can obviously affect your body. say no


these are psychologist they are psyching


me a good thing we psych you now if it's


so since you say I don't know some


people not like good things no we like


good things Job chapter 5


amen


in famine he shall redeem thee from


death


and in war from the power of the sword


did you see it sir so we said 19 he


shall deliver thee in six trouble in


seven even in the perfection of trouble


thereall and no evil touch you. I


believe this. There shall no evil touch


me. There shall no evil touch me. There


shall no evil touch me.


In famine shall redeem thee from death.


So when things are hard, you know they


reach my side.


And in war from the power of this world,


in the day of violence and evil, cotlas


no go walk. God no go walk against me.


Nothing they plan go work.


Their defenses are broken.


Yeah. In a war from the power of the


sword. The visionary shares this story


every time of when they uh posted him to


Sambisa forest and he sat on a landmine.


True story. And I said, "Ah, wait, sir."


And he he will sit stand go and he was


you know when you know land miner once


you move leg it will explode


then say sir hey sir sit sit sit they


use hand to clear the whole place


s


[Music]


so he got up from there they picked it


and threw it away


and it exploded but it didn't sitting on


top of the thing


in the world of say I was s on top of


the head of the devil


not go walk you said cuz


since I was young I've been saying it in


famine you will be saying it all those


reason it does not have effect does not


have effect in six trouble in seven he


shall deliver me you go eat all this


kind of references people have no


reference that they are fed upon


[Music]


in farming


So he shall redeem thee from death in


war from the power of the sword.


Thou shalt be heed from the scourge of


the tongue. Neither shalt thou be afraid


of destruction when it cometh.


At destruction and famine thou shall


laugh. Neither shalt thou be afraid of


the beast of the earth.


[Music]


For thou shalt be in league with the


stones of the feet, and the beast of the


feet shall be at peace with thee. For


thou shalt know, For thou shalt know


that thy tabernacle shall be in peace,


and thou shalt visit thy habitation, and


shall not sin. Thou shall know also that


thy sea shall be great, and thy


offspring as the grass of the earth.


26 Thou shalt come to the grave in a


full age. Now, this is it. I have been


quoting this now for almost 17 years


actively.


And that's in in in quoting this and


saying this and saying this. That's


where one of the days I was saying the


Lord said to me, "Your life is not in


the sea that it should be taken. Your


life is not in the air that a plane


hazard should take it. Your life is not


in the sea that you should drown. Your


life is not in the gun. Is not in any of


those things. Your life is in my hand.


And when it is your time,


I will take you."


Amen. Amen.


the seeds so that those things lose


their power.


Many years ago I was I uh I used to have


this phobia


for water river because I can't swim and


one of those days I was passing this is


over a decade now passing that long


bridge


going to worry and the way the vehicle


was wobbling I said if this vehicle just


tumble now so person will take that from


inside of me


there are rules


you will walk on water or you will


divide it. I said yes.


They don't but the yes came out from my


mouth. What I said


that was the day I got the victory. I


don't need to know how to swim to be


delivered now. Don't put I don't put my


faith on all of those. Swimming is know


how to swim is good. But the divine


response that's not be afraid of because


I've been saying things that day it


broke. I do my life is not in any of


those things. So,


Amen. Amen.


Hallelujah.


Lord, but on the last uh flight from


outside the country into Nigeria.


I just looked my wife had slept off. I


this woman don't even know what is


happening. Everybody in the plane had


come down moving around said this plane


like a girl is show. I just realized


that nothing 1 hour 2 hours ah somebody


everybody say enter back the plane


people are saying no this plane many


things are not working here


[Music]


I shut my eyes as I shut my eyes saw


they were stamping my passport that I


have entered into Nigeria I is I turn to


the person around I said Nigerians must


be Nigerians I started moving up and


down causing sin this plane is just that


they not own the See this plane will not


even have turbulence. He said I said you


will see it. Funny enough that plane no


single turbulence normal turbulence. Oh


that they hit cloud was the smoothest


flight. All the people that were they


want to kill us. They want to kill us


all slept got to Nigeria. We have got to


Nigeria.


[Music]


We can confirm things. I have inside


information. I have inside information.


I I will not panic. I will not fear. I


will not be worried. I will not be I


will not be and funny enough that it


happened to first flight from to to my


connecting flight that one the plane you


say we are coming we are sorry we are


working on something I said today is not


a this what kind of what is happening


here 5 minutes after I pray the issue


that they whatever they were working on


I say we are ready I say ah I s baba go


yeah not pray we call ah no I'm


preaching on Sunday oh


ah Ah, I don't see those things as


coincidence. How come five minutes after


I pray the plane now move from the first


one and the second one? What did they


happen? Sorry. Oh


no, things don't work like that for me.


No, I


Let's be spiritual.


Speak God's word in faith and power.


Stand on your feet. Speak God's word in


faith and power. I mean, faith is how we


use the power of God. Faith is how we


use the power of God. Speak God's word


in faith and power.


We can tell if you have faith. We can


tell if you have faith. We can tell if


you have faith.


[Music]


I will fear no evil. I will fear no


evil. I fear no evil.


So I will say of the Lord, refuge at my


fortress. My God.


What are you saying? Notice Psalm 91. I


will say of the Lord.


The original say of the Lord.


Remove the eye. Say of the Lord. What do


you say? I say of the Lord. So say of


the Lord, what are you saying?


What are you saying?


There are things that that that should


cause fear, cause panic.


[Music]


I will not go under. No. Uh I have a


command to increase.


Ain't nothing terrified of the


adversary.


Hallelujah.


Say those things.


Sometimes when you start speaking God's


word in faith like that, it has not yet


come. Then when it hit you in your


spirit like hey you know that I have


gotten the victory is that thing. That's


why we say revelation knowledge is


faithful.


It's good to know all of those but you


see when you see it when you see it


the reason why we have been able to


confront I I I rub the their cheek and


push their head away say say put block


on your head your life is in my hand I


can see it


I can see that you are alive by my mercy


say put block on my head all flesh is


but grass


that's what I see they talk grass that


wither away


today is that tomorrow is not. Still


they talk


say for we are men inside your


corporated building.


No, there are stronger things.


What do you know? What do you believe?


Say I'm the owner of this area. I got


up. I was sitting down before I stood


up. Looked him in the eye and said, "No,


you're not the one. I own this area


and the cult is head of the cult group


there and the guy and I could see the


gun there say you know they see let's go


for our life sake


you see oh because that obviously may be


the jazz man that is with him say don't


you see I I heard him clearly like that


as a man in front of me so


say don't you see


David say when I Get up.


Let me stand up for this matter


is war.


[Music]


Faith is Jesus said I am he. They fell


backward.


He had to give himself to them. Say


things like no man take my life. I lay


it down. Is the way of sons. Don't be


nobody know don't do that. Don't use


your life to be playing.


He had to even to die say I give up the


ghost father into thy hand I commit


[Music]


die to die so hard for Jesus. It is the


way of sons.


Reverend freedom said when he had that


accident his his his bone broke to one


side. He said no no no no none of his


bones are broken. That's a test for


Jesus. The bone came back into position,


did his leg like that and got up and


left the hospital bed. What do you


believe?


[Music]


Ran straight through a trailer. What do


you believe? It's alive now. You have


seen him now.


How can your vehicle pass through?


There was no way to escape that head-on


collision.


The other time he said you will hear a


blast and a rumor


and the arm robbers camper. They started


hearing siren. There was no siren. It


was the word. You will hear a blast and


a rumor. It was not Isaiah said and you


will go back to say where you came.


Life is spiritual. Say police have come.


Police have gone. There was no police


anywhere. It was spirit. It's angels


that are blowing this. Life is


spiritual.


Life is spiritual. Life is spiritual.


Life is spiritual.


I had pastor M in that vehicle coming


back from Equ supernatural division


meeting and a vehicle hit us to a


trailer. We were waiting for that


trailer. Two trailers were dragging. So


we waited so that the vehicle will pass.


The trailer will cut back. You know


where they take your own lane. I'm in my


normal lane. I own hazard light.


Everywhere just got blank.


Boom. come back. Pushed. That was still


my Corolla. They pushed me into


everything just blank. And we got up


inside the car. Everything inside the


car, the cab, all those things that need


to anything that can be opened was


opened.


The car seat cover the back flew out.


Everything scatter inside the car.


We came outside. Where is the trailer?


We did not see trailer again because


that impact because the trailer you know


when trailer you wait so the trailer can


turn if they hit you and they where we


were the car move forward.


So when I came out from the car he came


out too. We went to the back the bumper


was okay. The car that hit the whole


front had been destroyed. Water leaking


engine scattered.


I look at the man I say so


and all the while we were there no


vehicle passed say as we were driving I


said ah thank god we have god though


thank god we we talking about safety


we're talking about how the angels of


god keep people see angels of god kept


us


is not luck oh what you believe what you


say


what you believe what you say what you


believe what you say what you believe


What you say? What you believe? What you


say? We're going for Reh Thanksgiving in


his church in Saplet. Then the front


tire of the vehicle pulled out


and the car stopped and we looked we


were in the side that is safe. We on the


highway but when the car stop we were in


the side that is safe. Even a lady that


wore poor dressing you could tell she's


a prostitute. When we and everybody was


say how we not together I say vehicle we


come a military vehicle came we entered


the back seat free ride and the lady say


God is real I go serve God god is really


you cannot know you you will know that


there is a god that can vehicle on the


highway vehicles behind us then vehicle


is this way it seems that we have been


seeing for something to happen he go


park jib we you say all those things so


don't wait until the day of where could


I have said any confession it was just


suddenly it happened because we saw


entire roll out then as always you just


look like everywhere just go blank. It


is that covering it shall cover you


under your feather. The rest is is that


way film trick. That's film trick time.


It's film trick time. You will not know


how. You not know how but you are


preserved.


Me I'm preserved. That's the one I care


about. That I'm preserved.


The Lord is keeping me safe. Lord is


keeping me safe. You say it. No, in a


time now where there's insecurity, not


for you. Not for you. I go out and I


come in. You say it. You say not, hey,


nobody know. No, I know. I know. I know.


I know. I know. Only when I'm satisfied


with my days with my angel come for me.


No. When I'm satisfied with my days. No.


Nothing like


you can go out, but you may I will come


in. Safeties of the Lord. The prayer for


battle. But safeties of the Lord.


The horse is ready for battle, but


safety is of the Lord. Safety is of the


Lord. Lord and that God keeps me safe.


God keeps me safe. Saul was outside


ready to kill David. And David right, I


shall not die.


Look at the the the where he got that


psalm. I shall not die but leave.


That night Saul fell into a deep sleep.


That the servants of David caught the


robe of Saul. A day outside somebody say


I know die. He got fall into deep sleep.


He says, "See, God has given us our


enemy. Let's kill." He said, "No, he's


the anointed. I shall not die. I shall


not die. What say you? What say you?"


The other time he left the house,


Absalon and the rest have for shooting


from his kingdom and he was going and


they were mocking him and the rest were


mocking him and he said, "I will return


back for the Lord is a lifter of my


head."


Where we get that psalm, my glory don't


lift off my head. He was saying it as he


was going that I will come back.


The Lord is the lifter of I so see I'm


now king now king is suffering shame say


the Lord is the lifter of my head I do


not bow in shame I do not I do not no


the Lord is the lifter of my head


you say it oh


nobody ever this me I would do it this


does not ever know it will work for me


say what you believe


keep feasting on God's word until it


dawns on you that ah truly truly


some you notice how some people share


some testimony of when they finally now


got him say they have prayed for me pray


for me but I now said that time is that


thing that dying they were doing they


could have done it from the get go but


it's okay at least he came I say ah no


what will I have done


what will I have ah this is what I


should have if I'm then what should I to


that moment of appropriation.


Everything clear. Hallelujah. Praise


God. Amen. Amen. It will work. It will


work. It will work.


One of our sisters was sharing a story


with me. You say, "Oh, that's a big


money I've spent. Believe God for


something like that." And I said by next


week, Friday, you would have completed


the money. That's just I stretch the


faith more for her. I've not believed.


It doesn't matter because the arrow they


hand said it I shot the arrow for her


before next week Friday you would have


completed it that's the first time that


kind doesn't matter to the spirit the


power of God will bring it you believe


you know when conversation switch you


know when conversation switch what do


you believe what say you say stand by


the door by this time of life you shall


have your child I believe I believe I I


believe. I believe.


Have you seen yourself childless? Have


you seen yourself barrying? No, I've not


seen myself like that. So what have you


seen? It will come to you. And once that


once it comes to you, that's the answer.


Nothing you are holding on to but I just


trust God. That's not how we trust God.


Sir, that's not faith can be seen.


That's not how we trust God. You can't


just uh cuz that's what we eliminate the


fear. That's what we eliminate the


worry.


That's what we eliminate the doubt.


Those are the things that attack your


faith.


I say of the Lord,


death and life are in the power of


tongues. I say it, may the forces of


time and chance favor me, oh, send good


speed, oh Lord.


Is that not what the servant of Abraham


said, send good speed? Today is that


day.


Qu moment. The forces and time and


chance are favoring me.


It's working for me. It's working for


me.


And that day where Jonathan won, he said


it felt that that was a great day. It


happened. And that became a great day.


Any day can become a great day.


The Lord said the day you leave Egypt,


that shall be the first day of the month


for you. That day, oh, any day can be


the day. The configuration of time


change that that shall be the first day


of the month for you. Ah that shall be


the first I believe God. I believe God.


It shall be a performance. That's what


Mary said. It shall be a performance


that were spoken onto her by the Lord.


It shall be a performance. I believe I


believe. I believe. I believe. I


believe. Faith never fails.


Because God never fails. There's nothing


wrong with the power of God.


Hold on to your faith. It has great


recompense of reward. Hold on to your


faith. Satan comes from the world. He's


coming for that faith in your heart. I


know what I believe. I know what God


said to me. I'm not going to take any


other thing.


[Music]


I believe. I believe. I believe. I


believe. I believe. I believe. So when


we act in faith,


we are being strong with the powers of


God. I'll be a man of faith from


tonight, from today forever. Forever I I


I will build myself to be stronger in


faith.


Hallelujah. Praise God. Build myself to


be stronger in faith.


Stronger in faith. We heard brother


shared that story. He said ah if


pastor's driver at that time could


withstand those armed robbers and they


could not steal his vehicle. He said


they will not steal my vehicle. If he


had not acted he would have not had


vehicle today now but he acted. So he


too now has joined the testimony list.


We don't know. We don't we don't do that


here. We don't know. We don't know. We


don't know this thing they until you try


it which is not try which is used. Until


you use it you will never you will still


be thinking are you sure it will work?


Are you sure? No.


It always work.


The Bible is that's why faith it will


come to you. Is it that you open the


book? Is it that all these stories are a


lie?


No. You will prove yourself Lord


it will end. It will come. Hey, it will


come to you. Aha.


Say I know. I know. I know. I know.


Hallelujah. Praise God.


I believe God. I believe God. I believe


God. I believe God. I believe God. I


believe God. Lift your hands and pray in


the Holy Ghost. Thank you, Jesus.


I believe