mighty move of your spirit in this house


this morning. We open ourselves to


possibilities.


We again know that in this service the


eyes of our understanding will be


enlightened.


We thank you for thus far how you've led


us in this service and truly we know


that our profiting will appear to all.


We declare again that the things that


ought to be said in this service will be


said. The things that ought to be done


will be done


to the praise and glory of your name.


Amen.


God bless you. Have your seats. Genesis


chapter 1 and we will


read 18 verses. Genesis chapter 1 and


verse one.


Genesis chapter 1 and verse one. In the


beginning, God created the heaven and


the earth. In the beginning, God created


the heaven and the earth. And the earth


was without form and void. And darkness


was upon the face of the deep.


And the spirit of God moved upon the


face of the waters. And God said, "Let


there be light." And there was light.


And God said, "Let there be light." And


there was light. And God saw the light,


and it was good. And God divided the


light from the darkness.


And the evening and the morning were the


first day. And God said, "Let there be a


firmament in the midst of the waters."


The word firmament is the word expanse


or space. Let there be a space in the


midst of the waters. Let it divide the


waters from the waters. There will be


water up and down. All right? In the


heavens and in the earth there will be


waters. So, and God made the firmament


and divided the waters which were under


the firmament from the waters which were


above the firmament. And it was so. And


God called the firmament heaven, the


space above heaven. And the evening and


the morning were the second day. And God


said, "Let the waters under the heavens


be gathered together into one place. And


let the dry land appear." And it was so.


And God called the dry land.


And the gathering together of the waters


called he seas. And God saw that it was


good. And God said, "Let the earth bring


forth grass, the hair eating seed, the


fruit tree eating fruit after his kind,


who seed in himself upon the earth. And


it was so. And the earth brought forth


grass and help eating seed after his


kind. And the tree eating fruit whose


seed was in itself after his kind. And


God saw that it was good. And the


evening and the morning were the third


day. And God said, "Let there be light


in the firmament of the heavens to


divide the day from the night, and let


them be for signs and for seasons, and


for days and for years. And let there be


for lights in the firmament of the


heavens to give light upon the earth."


And it was so. Verse 16.


And God made two great lights, the


greater light to rule the day, the


lesser light to rule the night. He made


the stars also. And God set them in the


firmament of the heaven to give light


upon the earth and to rule over the day


and over the night and to divide the


light from the darkness. And God saw


that it was good.


And that was the fourth day. So um if


you continue to verse 31 where he's done


with and we've had to explain this again


and again and again and again that um


the Bible has its own context. The the


context of the Bible is not the


reformation. It's not Zwingley Calvin


John Horse Martin Luther is not the


context of the Bible. It's not uh the


early church fathers polycap Ignatius


Clement uh Tetulian Atonacius who


compiled the cannon of the scriptures


completely adding the 27 New Testament


books and all of that wonderful people


that is not the context of the Bible.


The context of the Bible is the Bible


itself. how the biblical writers wrote


and what they intended us to see in what


they were writing. And we've said that


the use of the word in Genesis chapter


one, how he writes, Moses is not the


first man that was created. And he's not


writing as if people did not know there


was a heaven and an earth like he's


informing them. And that is the


challenge already in the interpretation


that once you start reading Genesis


chapter one like nobody knew about


creation in the time that it was written


is a lie. It does not you already with a


false premise. So what you have in your


mind is not letting you see the


liberating truths that are contained


within that chapter because you already


have a wrong premise for observation.


And so again as we teach in Bible


interpretation techniques observation


interpretation application once your


observation is wrong your interpretation


and what you are applying will be wrong.


What you are observing what you are


interpreting what you are applying will


be wrong. So what should I do? I must


have the proper premise to my


observation. And so the proper premise


to have takes us to chapter 2 verse one.


And it says thus the host of the heavens


and the host of the earth were finished.


So if I did not have a two world view in


chapter one I did not read chapter one


where of course chapter two if you


arranging it in paragraphs ought to


start from verse four


because chapter one hasn't ended till he


said what he said in verse four. So from


verse 5 of Genesis 2:5 if you are


arranging the Bible in paragraphs you


have Genesis 1 verse one to 2:4 that is


one whole paragraph where it's done with


that whole body of thought. So from


verse 5 down until man is created a


paragraph a body of thought which is


what paragraphs represent. So um how it


was put and chapters and verses like


I've told you over the years were not


done by the original writers. It was not


the uh original writers, the prophets,


all the apostles that put this in


chapters and verses. So when you read


the Bible, you must have that mindset


that what I am reading did not come in


chapter and verses. So I should read


everything to better understand the


story. So he says toss the host of


heaven and the host of the earth were


finished. So I need to have a heaven and


an earth world view and the host of


heaven host of the earth. It gives you


again a supernatural world view context


of reading the Bible which we said in


Hebrews chapter 11 that uh through faith


we understand Hebrews 11:3 we understand


that the walls the periods of time the


walls were framed by the word of God so


that the things which are seen were not


made of the things which do appear. So


the seen and the unseen word overlap


interlap and one is used to explain the


other. That must be how you understand


the faith of our lord Jesus. Because


once you miss in fact the very first


millennia of the earth was deep in


supernatural practice. It's like today


somebody say I don't believe in science.


Ah not believing in science means you


are blind means you are deaf means you


can't see you can't hear. Obviously,


because I just show you my phone. You


can't say I don't believe in science. I


show you a phone. I point


different things to you that were made


by science because that is the world we


live in today. And the first two


millennials of the earth did not have


any world view other than a supernatural


world view. And that in the second


millennium and the first century AD was


where God inspired men to write the


scriptures.


And you don't want to have a


supernatural worldview contest reading


the Bible. You want it to be a science.


And that's where people get into


arguments trying to make the Bible what


it is not. Allow ancient men to be


ancient. Let the Torah be what the Torah


is. Let the historical book be what the


historical books are. Let the minor


major prophet be. Let the setting be the


way they put it. The issue will now be a


proper exesis and hermenetics. to


properly interpret it in that setting


and travel down to our world today


because the Bible has an ancientness


that distance gap we are very distant


from David very distant from Abraham and


so we must bridge that gap which is the


work of a Bible teacher Paul says


uh hold them in high esteem because they


labor in the word and doctrine because


it's labor because the text doesn't just


tell you this is the answer you have to


because the truth purpose of the Bible


is to put out wisdom for you. So not


just is clear. I see it like that. No,


there are no handouts. It is in because


wisdom


should be gotten in different context


and different settings. So the


scriptures will provide us wisdom on a


matter and while we can teach from here,


teach from here and bring all the things


that they were saying. Why? Because they


are teaching with stories.


The loudest uh uh genre in the Bible is


narrative. Narrative. So narrative,


there's pros, there's all of those


poetry, there are different writing


style. But there are more stories in the


Bible.


More stories in the Bible. And that is


how you must have Genesis chapter one


begins because Moses is beginning the


biblical story for us. And it tells us


that in the beginning which is not the


word fora


once upon a time that is not the setup


again we've had to use that word because


the word in the beginning in the


beginning the word begin the word but in


the beginning is the word which is used


to explain the first of the first


fruits.


You cannot be harvesting and say this is


the first this is not the first thing


you do. The first thing a farmer do is


not harvest is plant. So he says in the


harvest God that's already telling you


that there's a story line he's


communicating and how he teaches is very


important. Now in our first part of this


series last year where we taught on


unseen forces, I did teach you the host


of heaven language. But once you cannot


see that creation explains creation and


creation is used to explain creation,


you have missed out on a whole lot of


things. Because once you have Genesis


chapter one a physical creation nobody


sent you that thing that you are doing


have because the creation story is being


used as a parable because it is not


creation that is really after but


actually God's plan and purpose that is


using creation to teach. So he's using


creation as a parable as a illustration.


So the intent of Genesis chapter one is


not to teach you creation. Why? Because


the audience are not stupid. The


audience already know about a creation.


So he's using the creation story to show


them God's plan and purpose and God's


dealings with them. Amen. So you must


have and retain that supernatural


worldview context of scriptures. Amen.


Hallelujah. So in the beginning, in the


beginning, in the beginning, God created


the heavens and the earth. This is what


he started. This is what he will end


with. This the intention. So heaven


matters but not at last. Heaven matters


at all time. For religious people,


heaven matters only when they die. When


at the end of the world, that's not how


the biblical story ends. The biblical


story does not end with safe souls going


up to a symbolic heaven or paradise of


bliss. But that paradise actually coming


down on the earth. And when we realize


that the Bible has a consistent


storyline


weaved around five themes, the creation,


the fall, Israel, Jesus, and the new


family, it makes the whole story come


about that. Oh, we get the plot of the


story. We get the plot of the story


because how the story begins is how the


story ended. Heaven and earth, heaven


and earth together. And Genesis chapter


2, God created a garden and put man in


the garden. The garden


was the intersection of two worlds


because God wanted heaven and earth to


interlap. You know intersection like


they teach you where you did vin diagram


set I know what they call it. So you a


cycle you roll another cycle.


The garden of Eden was that


intercession.


The garden of Eden was that


intercession. Abby.


The garden of Eden. That's where the two


cycles


interlap. The garden of Ed. So that's


how God made man and that's how God


wants man to function because that's how


God wants our living to be. So we say


two worlds collide. Two worlds intersect


and at the center an image. That's the


supernatural worldview contest they had


that the world is a temple that God


made. And the world that is a temple


that God made is a heaven plus earth


structure with an image at the center.


Now


all of this theology is exciting is deep


is deep. What I just care about is my


everyday life. That's that's not true.


And that's very disheartening to find


out that that's how your life is and


that's how you think because then you


will not be able to pick things.


We do not let words slide. I heard the


doctor saying it will end the shame.


Once a word has been repeated once,


twice. It is for the sake of invoking a


spirit into it. We we we we don't become


superstitious.


But it's not superstitious. That's how


people actually swear for people.


That's how people actually swear for


people. You will see. You will see ah no


you break such words. you break such


words and to say no it will not end this


I don't know what you are saying I don't


know what anger what issue is making you


respond like this but no no it doesn't


things don't flow like that for me


that's why we need a theology behind


things so that we understand how because


theology prop sound doctrine is for


proper application and for mastery so I


cannot have the doctrine and I'm see I I


I guess so I don't guess so I know so I


figured it out. This is how it should


be. This is what I should do. So that's


the essence of sound doctrine. So in the


Genesis chapter one, it says God created


the heavens and the earth and he showed


us how God ordered the world because


first there was God before anything was


made. Before the mountains were


established, you have been God. So first


there was God before anything that was


made was made. So God and God from the


naughtiness made the world. So he uses


that same phrase to explain how chaos


has entered into the world. But God is


the God of order is the God that orders


chaos away.


So he uses that word in Genesis 1 verse


two to without form and void. But he say


the spirit of God moved because God


knows how to bring order into chaos. And


what is disorderly? What is a waste


howling wilderness? Which is the same


word used for where God found Israel?


Because Moses that was his audience. He


used that same word to Deuteronomy 32


that God found him in a waste howling


wilderness. He was in chaos. And there


he took Israel to be his own nation.


Took Jacob to be the lot of his


inheritance. All of that phrasing


because he's teaching a direct audience.


And the direct audience that Moses is


teaching is not Abraham or all of those


people. No, he's teaching the people he


brought out from Egypt. So you will see


the very first five books


have an interextual corroboration where


what you see in Genesis is in Exodus is


Levitical is the number. So that the


five books which all the average every


uh uh young Jewish boy was made to read


the five books together to understand


what is called the law of Moses, the


Torah, the the pentat as we call it


today. Now why all of this whole talk?


Because when we read


the things that we are reading,


it looks very plain. But when you order


it, you see 1 2 3 4 5 6 7


1


and four. If you read it, day one and


day four has light in day one, let there


be light. Day four, light in the


firmament. Day two, day five, the same


thing.


Day three, that is not luck. That's


intelligent design being done by the


writer to communicate a point so that


you see the relationship.


So that you see the relationship. So


when you hear phrases, the sun shall not


smite you by day. All you just want to


think of is u I'm free from dangers and


impending troubles. But that's not what


the biblical writers had in mind because


they knew that the elements are also


symbolic representation and there what


it represents and what he was saying is


more than just God saving you from from


from impending danger but bringing a


supernatural worldview context and tells


you because now the heavens


are not clean. the founders of the earth


are of course as so there's a lot to


learn. So Jesus chapter one look at what


he said in verse um


14. I did mention this in the first part


last year and I'm still running from it


because it's quite a lot of work and I


won't even try to to push it in this but


I just want to introduce it again so


that it's somewhere in your mind until


the day where we come and teach around


the greater light and the lesser light.


However, I can make a conclusive


statement without the explanation


because the text has a concluding


conclusive statement. So, it's the text


that I'm going to use for my conclusive


statement itself. So, it says, "And God


said, let there be light in the


firmament of the heavens to divide the


day from the night. Let them be for


signs, for seasons, for days, and for


years." Now, that host of heaven,


that host of heaven that he's talking


about, the light and the fire, let there


be


Verse 15, and let them be for light of


the heaven to give light upon the earth,


and it was so. Verse 16, God made two


great lights. Now, what you are reading


here is not the physical sun, moon, and


star. Yet, there's the physical sun,


moon, and star that God created.


Remember, you must see creation


explaining creation in how he writes


because how somebody said there's no


place in the Bible where we saw where


supernatural were created. I said, "No,


it is Genesis chapter one. That's where


everything was created. That's how they


give you the origin story say because


chapter two say to the heavens at the


earth the host of heaven to finish and


you keep seeing host of heaven for those


who are new sorry we won't be able to


recap for you in the same series this


year I have had to show you that um the


word host of heaven or heavenly beings


another termology used for supernatural


beings that describe their nature the


nature of spiritual beings which we call


angels angel is also So not he's not a


nature technology but a function


technology. However we can just like we


call somebody that's an that's a doctor


that's an engineer but he's not the only


one that's a doctor. Now somebody else


can also be a doctor. So that's not his


name. That is a function that is a


title. So that's how those statements


but the nature he maketh his angels


spirits. Psalm 104 he makes his angels


spirits.


So they are spirits.


Spirits nature terminology


clouds


nature.


So they are spirit beings.


They are that's wind. They are spirits.


They are wind. They are fire. That's


nature. Abby that's nature. They are


clouds. Psalm 104 we did that last year.


The ride upon the the wings of the then


you see it was received by a cloud.


Every time you see received by a cloud,


received by a cloud, you see


supernatural beings mentioned alongside


from Genesis to Revelation. Every time


you are seeing cloud and super, you


always see supernatural beings because


that is the use of the word cloud. Then


we look at the word saints. We look at


the word gods, sons of God. I mean you


you should have at least nine of such


nature terminology.


You should have up to nine nature


technologies for supernatural beings.


Then we looked at the function


technology where we looked at angels. We


looked at uh watchers, cherub beams,


host,


ministers,


cherobim, seraraphim.


So there is functions that they carry


out. Now the genesis chapter one, he now


use the word host of heaven. And if you


are consistent with the use of host of


heaven which you would see in that first


kings 22 we also read that just put the


scriptures media help me because I don't


want to read everything today so that


those who are not when I say text just


be putting on the screen because I don't


want to read them I actually want to be


uh so first king 22 you know it the


Micaiah story just put it so that people


can be getting all the references fast


so that I can work with time.


We've also read this in the course of


this series. Now notice he used the word


host of heaven there.


Abby, he used the word host of heaven


there. Verse 19. Yeah. Thou therefore


the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord


sitting on his throne and all the host


of heaven standing on standing by him on


the right and on the left all the host


of heaven. The same word in Jon 4:19.


Lest thou lift up thy eyes into heaven.


And when thou seeest the sun, the moon,


the stars, even all the host of heaven,


shouldest be driven to worship them. So


when the ancient men saw the skies and


saw the stars, the sun, the moon, saw


the things, they said they living things


up there. Their idea for you think they


are very barbaric and foolish. No, they


may be ancient, but they had wisdom.


Wisdom is not in the times.


No, knowledge is in the times. Knowledge


runs to and fro. Wisdom is in all ages


because there will always be


interpretation and application in every


time, in every phase, in every age.


People have always been wise now is in


fact that keeps getting that keeps


increasing. We didn't know this fact


before, but now that we had this fact,


we can now apply it. What's the


difference between the organ and the boy


in every craft?


Your guy has wisdom. He has


understanding. So in every setting


that's why your guy can now say but I


told you this. So for the boy he knows


but he did not know the application in


the different so that he had a issue


here. Hey I could not solve it. I did


not know what to do that's why the say


ah how long now by now you should be


able to do it like this like this. what


he's expecting the boy to have learned


now in any of the craft where there's


apprenticeship is that wisdom


because I will not always be there


because what I'm able to give you now is


the goound that go around has always


been in all ages. Amen.


So the ancient men when they lifted up


their eyes and they saw the skies they


said this is heaven and that heaven in


their mind was not the physical heaven.


They know that this up one is physical


heaven. They are not blind. They can


touch things. They can see that one is


obviously physical. That's the same way


they knew that. Oh, so there are also


supernatural entities. So the reality


and this is how you must read the Bible.


The earth belongs to us.


Up belongs to the gods supernatural


which we use the phrase Elohim that


there is not only one Elohim in the


Bible. So the up belongs to supernatural


beings because we can see uh like


shining lights up there and because if


you don't have this context you not be


wondering how come they just mentioned


host of heaven it will be only Israel


that is now dull because the Canaanites


the Medidianite all of these people knew


that supernatural beings were host of


heaven how can only Israel just be dull


in the old time I mean that does not


work now it's like everybody knows if


You wear this this is this but only


Israel because they serve God do not


know what kind are they being are they


serving God to be backward or something


no so ancient men


we don't live in the sky we live on the


ground that's the same way to show place


of residence that's why they use the


word skies heavens


to speak of the unseen world so we are


for the earth we are for the ground we


are for the earth we are for the ground


For supernatural beings are in the skies


and those superal being are called


stars. Job 38 remember when the morning


stars sang together. Stars don't sing.


They don't. The physical stars don't


sing. So what are they saying when they


say the morning star sang for joy


rejoicing at creation taking you that


job 38. What are they showing you that


world view?


So I told you when you say the morning


stars because man woke up to see


supernatural happenings. They were there


before the dawning of man. So they use


that world view to explain oh these are


the stars which is again a nature


technology coke beams like I told you


the stars just like you read the stars


are fighting for us. So it looks oh


because of course we have been using


that word a lot this year. So everybody


knows supernatural beings but most


people feel when they hear the word


stars they think to physical stars. No


the bible does have those physical


narrative narration. However, it has a


supernatural worldview context where


they are now using the stars beyond his


on something is used beyond its natural


use. That is supernatural. Once


something has shifted from its natural


use and is having a function that cannot


be found in the natural, you should


immedately think on sin.


So God made two worlds,


the invisible and the visible world. Are


you here? God made the invisible world


which is called heaven and the visible


word called earth and he put


supernatural beings spirits in the


spiritual world not so simple and


physical be in the physical world


however and he made spiritual beings to


rule in the unseen and he made physical


beings to rule in the sin however he now


put man this is where the conflict comes


from and where the rebel starts he now


put man over all creation which is now


over all the world. So the sin now the


unseen world is ruled by unseen beings.


The sin world is ruled by sin being now


the sin beings which is human beings now


rule all creation. Ah David said what is


man that are mindful of him when I


consider the heavens the sun the stars


the works of the hand that thou has made


when I look at supernatural beings and


not physical sun moon and star god


forbid that's not what he's saying. When


I look at supernatural beast, they ought


to be the one. But what is man? Why will


you make man from death and want man to


rise to such levels of ascendancy that


man will now be over? But that was God's


plan. Let this death eat eternal life


and be glorified. Let this death sit


above the mountains. Let this death rise


up. God has chosen the weakness of this


world to comfort. That's just how God


does his things. So he did not choose


supernatural beings to rule over all


creation. He put man and let them right


from the getgo he told the supernatural


beings they will have dominion let them


and there the conflict began which will


have all the different rebellions and


all of that. So how God made the world.


So there is the invisible and the


visible and they are not fighting they


are not contrad. So I said on Wednesday,


an emphasis on the supernatural should


never be a deemphasis on the natural.


Avoid such weirdos.


I'm not like that.


An emphasis on the natural should not


deemphasize the supernatural. Don't try


it. An emphasis on the natural should


not deemphasize the supernatural. An


emphasis on the supernatural should not


deemphasize the natural.


Did you get it? should not deemphasize


it. The two words were made for each


and they interlap that one and the other


mingling with each other. That is how


God so the seen and the unseen word


mingle with each other.


So he uses that word that they are for


signs and for season. So the host of


heaven language Genesis uh 2:1


Deuteronomy 4:19 Deuteronomy 17:3 First


Kings 22:19 supernatural beings are


called host of heaven even when Jesus


was born you notice the host of heaven


were singing and rejoicing


the heavenly host.


So a word he uses in verse 16 it says to


rule the day and I told you to take note


of this word last year the word meshalah


which is the word for dominion where


Paul gets his word rulers principality


powers rulers of this word the dominion


in other place called them thrones and


dominion thrones and dominion rulers and


principalities the term used to explain


supernatural beings so uses that word


There


he made two great lights, a greater


light to rule the day, lesser light to


rule the night. He made the stars also


and God set them in the firmament of the


heavens to give light upon the earth to


rule over the day and over the night.


So


the sun rules the day, the moon rules


the night. Hallelujah.


This is the reason why you must say let


the forces of time and chance favor me.


Because the forces regulating day and


night are not all good anymore.


Why you think I was going since? That's


where I've been going since. So because


once you cannot see because that's the


ordinances now how the ordinances of the


heaven rule over the earth. There's how


God set it and it's no longer and that's


where he mentions the elements


even mentions to the crystallations. Can


that bind at Orion? He starts saying


things that looks beyond the uh he's not


supernatural things that are beyond


people. He's used natural things to


explain supernatural things. And he goes


back and forth back back and forth in


that job 38 where requiring Job to


answer those questions because Job had


ducking counsel with words without


wisdom. So he's now giving him the


answer. So to rule the day, to rule the


night, to rule that's more than just


sun. Sun is not ruling anything. The sun


is shining. The physical sun is not


ruling anything. Physical sun, the


physical moon is not ruling. It can it


cannot rule over itself. Physical sun


and moon are not ruling anything. But he


uses that is again that supernatural


worldview context that we must not mix.


So look at the theory words there for


signs. The word signs, we explained this


word last year. Oth that the


supernatural beings are a what? A sign.


Are a what?


They are for signs. They are a token. So


that when you see so it's a token. So


the supernatural and this is where


people miss that is it God that


delivering me or it was super delivering


me everything join because their power


and their status will point to God's


power and status. They are a sign. They


are a sign. They are a sign. They are


for signs. So the what supernatural


beings are doing is a pointer. They is a


pointer


just like so see the two things. So if


you read it in the physical the physical


sun, moon and star are a pointer that


there is something more in the


heavenlies which is where the super


which is where the ancient men were so


wise. They knew that one that the


physical sun and star is a pointer to


something else. They got that one. All


right. Now the supernatural


host in the heavens are also still a


sign. Did you get it? The physical one


is a sign that there's more which is


where that more is where you say oh


there is the unseen. Now the unseen is


also a sign that there is also more


which is now God himself is also a sign


to something higher than it. There you


have the three heavens template that cut


to the third heaven. So physical heaven,


second heaven for supernatural have been


third heaven for where God is. That's


the uh the layers because the heavens


are layered. We looked at that also last


year. So where did Paul say up to the


third heaven? So it looks like ah where


is he getting all these teachings from?


Genesis to Malachi.


Hallelujah. So there is something


higher. So this is a signal, a beacon, a


monument as it were. It points


to God's power and status. So the sun,


moon, and star to rule the day and to


rule the night. Did you get it? To rule


the day and to rule the night. Psalm


136.


Psalm 136 and verse 5. To him by wisdom


made the heavens, for his mercy endureth


forever. To him that stretched out the


earth above the waters, for his mercy


endureth forever. To him that made great


lights for his mercy and the red


forever. The sun to rule the to rule by


day for his mercy end forever. The moon


and stars to rule by night for his mercy


and the red forever. To him that


smokeote Egypt in their firstborn for


his mercy in their firstborn. For his


mercy in the red forever. That again


shows you a supernatural worldview


context. and brought out Israel from


among them for his mercy with a strong


hand and with a stretched out arm for


his mer to him which divided the rest.


See all of these are supernatural acts.


Again he mentions the sun to rule by day


and the moon to rule by night. Now that


is


a core imagery that we must have. So the


verse uses the imagery of the sun and


the moon. Look at Psalm 121.


Psalm 121.


Psalm 121.


Psalm 121.


Verse five. Oh, let's start from verse


one. I'll lift up. This is the song of


song of ascent. Song of degrees. So it's


um there is a


arrangement of the psalms and this sect


that have psalm one to one is the ones


that the pilgrims were singing or they


will be singing and reciting and quoting


as they were marching to the temple


Jerusalem. So that's why it's called the


songs of ascent. So he said I will lift


up my eyes onto the hills from where


cometh my help. Now this is actually not


what he's saying at the same time what


he's saying because the nations around


them worship the gods that are on the


hill but he says I lift up my eyes onto


the hills from where my help my help


coming from the lord my help is not


coming from the hill my help is coming


from the lord who made so my help is


coming from the lord so


are you following so I'm not like the


other nations that look to the heels for


help no I look to the lord what I look


to is beyond the hill I look to the


Lord.


Did you get it?


I will lift up my eyes unto the his from


where cometh my help. My help comes from


the Lord, not from the he, my help come


from the Lord. So he will not suffer.


Now this is supernatural. He will not


suffer thy foot to be moved. He that


keepeth thee will not slumber


because the gods of the nations were


asleep. Ba used to go asleep. That's why


Elisha Elijah taunting them said maybe


he's sleeping. Wake him up. So it's


showing a difference. It says he will


not suffer thy food to be moved. He that


keepeth thee will not slumber. So you


can't say God is not attentive. Behold


he that keepeth his rest shall neither


slumber nor sleep. The Lord is thy


keeper. The Lord is thy shade upon thy


right hand. That takes you again to


supernatural word Psalm 91. The Lord is


thy shade upon thy right hand that


dwells in the shadow of the mo shall


abide. Abby dwell in the secret place of


the most high shall abide under the


shadow of the almighty the shade. The


Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand.


The sun shall not smite thee by day nor


the moon by night because that's not how


they were made. That's not how they were


made. So he uses the imagery of the sun


and the moon to represent dangers and


hardship that can occur both in the day


and the night. Any hardship or


difficulty that can occur during the day


and the night, I'm delivered from it.


Then the supernatural worldview contain


whether it is now caused by forces.


I am also exempted from it to


so in other words when people take your


name to a native doctor, a magician or


sorcerer


and he's doing something against you,


it ought to add to what is working for


your good because that's all it can be.


He cannot smite you. So the people that


son and is smiting by those kind of


practices is the believer that is not


having the lord as a refuge and as a


rock. But once I know that and I live in


that consciousness


I live in that consciousness. I'm


different from all of that. Is the same


story with Balam. Balam will turn to a


prophet of God when he's about to cost


me


is a soothsayer.


Balam is a soothsayer. Don't get it


wrong. He's a soothsayer. In fact, Peter


say and they slew Balam. Balam the


soothsayer. He's a soothsayer. In fact,


in the book of Joshua where Balam was,


that's how he was. He said and Balamus


say was one of the first that they


killed as they were entry to Jericho.


They daggered him.


He not see that one coming.


So all the atrocity that he did after


the other one did not work that could


not cause he now he could not cause


Israel. now give strategy that send them


f five women and they are all finished


in that place. So when all of the other


one did not work and many died because


of that that's where the doctrine of


balaminate from. So that balam


is of cing started blessing ab


because the song and the mo cannot smite


it cannot no no no say for there's a


shout of a king in their midst for the


lord their god is in their midst.


The Lord their God is in their midst. So


he says, "The Lord is thy keeper. The


Lord is thy shade."


So like we said, while that verse can be


interpreted literally that, oh during


the day and the night, I am I am free


from dangers and hardship, but it has


that supernatural worldview context that


I'm delivered


from the elements symbolic meaning, the


sun and the moon, which will represent


rulers and authorities.


So it's a declaration that that God will


protect God's protection surpasses the


natural even to the unseen that there is


nothing that can do you evil. So relax.


So if is now powers if it's no longer


physical it has now turned to unseen.


Baba relax you did. Amen.


Yeah that's that's what you must have in


mind. Hallelujah.


The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor


the moon by night. So look at when all


the earth is glorified is the same


thing. The sun and the light, they shall


not. They shall not hold. That's how it


is. They shall not hurt. Revelation 7,


the same thing. 2122 of Revelation. So


you have those set up.


Hallelujah.


So from Genesis chapter one, we have


that two world views. It says there are


for signs and for seasons.


The word seasons is the word moed


appointed place. So supernatural were


also made for dwelling for moed is


another word for uh appointed place of


meeting. So


those supernatural beings were made for


encounters for interactions with man. It


is quite normal for there to be


appointment seasons.


So that word seasons there is the word


appointment where you say uh this is the


time to do this. This is the set time.


This is the same word for it. So is the


same word used for there are four words


to explain council. This is another word


for council. And this is not just is


where the council is meeting and it's


also used to explain set time because


where are we meeting at this time this


is where we are meeting. So that word


where we are meeting


and the set time that we are meeting is


used for the same Hebrew word


and that's what he uses there for the


appointed place the appointed meeting.


So is the word for the appointment which


is the word the time appointed for the


season. So supernatural beings are a


sign that there is something more


a sign to the power and the status of


God. They are also for those appointment


because many times we will see God use


them in his interactions with man and in


his dealings with man. That is in the


order. And it says for days and for


years. This were now mentioned the


literal passage of time.


So it's a continual thing that they be


with man just like there's always a day


and a night. All right. So


now notice that word rule like we said.


So we said these supernatural beings


which is like God's work force in the


heavenly they rule the spiritual world.


And so God has two stewards.


Spiritual stewards and physical


stewards. Spiritual stewards that he


rules with physical stewards that so God


works with his in on sin and sin family.


But it is the sin family that God has


chosen which is where the jealousy and


the envy comes from to be over all


creation.


Amen.


Hallelujah.


And in Genesis chapter


Two, we see the provisions of the garden


of Eden, which is God's intention for


all the earth, the mountain high up, the


rivers flow down everywhere.


The city gate is continually open so


that things can flow out. It's not


locked in. The way people build cities,


so the city of God, Jerusalem, the doors


will always be open. The same motive


used to explain sacred place. So that


garden of God where God intends him and


man and super beings to dwell


is open to all and that's why we preach


the gospel today. Everybody can come in.


So we've explained all of those setups.


Now this is where it gets more


interesting. Pay attention.


We said how do we engage this unseen


forces knowing that unseen forces deals


with unseen influences unseen powers


unseen influences and power. Unseen


influences and power that begins in


three places with God with spiritual


beings and with man


because man is also a spiritual being.


However, a spiritual being with physical


body different from angels because he


does not inhabit the heavens. He


inhabits the earth. That's the


difference. But man is a spirit. But not


the way supernatural beings are spirit.


And the same way, not the same way


supernatural beings are spirit is the


same way God is spirit. So there is


hierarchy. There's status.


Are we following? There's difference of


appearances. So there's difference of


countenance and vis. So


did you get it? So what is man that


mindful of him son of man him for thou


has made it lower than the angel and as


that's in appearance the body physical


body looks lower than angel and has


crowned him with glory and honor. So God


put esteem on man.


God put esteem on man. Amen. So when we


say unseen forces, we are deal with that


unseen influences and power, unseen


influence or power that is from God or


from the good or bad spiritual beings,


good or bad angels. Thirdly, from the


good or bad men because a good man


starting from your father and your


mother blessing you is good. When your


father and your mother choose to be


working for the devil already, honor


your father and your mother so your days


may be long on the earth. simple code to


live long. You did not take it seriously


because you say superstition. All these


superstitious things I don't used to


like it.


Ah, sorry. Oh, say that is the only


commandment with a promise. You they


fight with your own


not sure live long.


As much as you can stand on your right,


stand on your ground, which is what


responsibility means. You are being an


adult.


Always be in good terms with your


parents. I beg you. And I'm not trying


to scare you that of course. And there


are some wicked parents that deliberate


because they know they have that place


of the silver tread


because it is through them you came into


this world. They try to cut your silver


tread. They try to speak evil against


your goings. But even if my father, my


motherh forsake me, said then the Lord


will pick me up. So there's something


higher. So I'm never going to be moved


by that. There's always something


higher. However, in the natural, honor


your father and your mother. The same


thing with spiritual authorities. But


that's the only commandment with the


promise that there was a said that your


days may be long on the earth.


So simple cheat code to live long. Be in


good terms with your parents.


Say no, we're in the new covenant. What


is new covenant? What are you talking


about? It's not in Ephesians that I read


it. So what is what is what is your new


covenant again? People just be using


Bible for cut and nail practices. Which


one is your new testament? Old


testament. What are you even saying?


What do you think is old and new


testament? You think it's the book? No.


Now


hallelujah.


So that unseen influence and power can


come from God, can come from


supernatural beings or from


man. And get it. It is every day


mingling with the natural. So when you


say I think I can go one day without


unseen influences and power. Now lie you


they lie.


There is no day that has happened


without unseen influences.


Say sir this is superstitious sir. This


is going to make people be why should


they be superstitious and why should


they be scared?


That's why we taught it so well so that


you will know that he say uh


I I read that text in Job where it talks


about a spirit is giving all transances.


I don't know why I said what I said that


many times people don't even know why


they said what they said. Job 26 to whom


has thou uttered was and whose spirit


came from thee? This thing happens


nearly every day. People say things


under different spirit. People


say things under different spirit and


this like I said where I want to draw


the cult in because I said it last year


because don't just see unseen when we


say unseen for you only think about


power everywhere scatter also see the


influence part because the influence


part is actually more in the everyday


life which is why I gave you the fourth


way to engage forces because that one


every day not be you can't live in the


moment no it's only moments come and go


But you are to live in all times. It's


not just


that service was very powerful. It


should be every day for you in your own


life. The revelation, the knowledge


because you you can't live in that


service.


The moments come are to aid and help you


continue. Growth is not in moments.


Growth is growth happens every day.


This thing must be an everyday practice.


So we talk about engaging


the unseen forces


because


every day you are because


I mean this is so basic to rule the day


and to rule the night how can you escape


you can't escape on sin forces being


involved in your everyday


this has this is even the person that is


saying he's not by it he's not by it


he's not by it let use America for


example And you you look at all these


developed nations, not just America, all


of the developed nations, very developed


nations


and look at the kind of views that they


are having.


Have you not seen the hypocrisy behind


those views that the same people that


are for all manner of perversion are


angry that the senator slept with a


woman? Should he not sleep with woman


before?


You imagine the shock as if they are


Christians. What are we doing here?


You're angry that you see this is


unbelievers should be unbelievers now.


Thank you. You can see the messed up.


You see somebody that is dressed like a


woman that but it's a man. Oh, is the


one that is I find this person you


cannot find this person guilty sir.


I find you.


What kind of judgment is that?


everything everything


because it's not everything that is


clear head because that's where clear


head comes that this is not what he's


supposed to be doing now he's in an


elected position that's clear head but


the other time where they say identify


as a pig it's not clear head so sometime


head works sometime clear head does not


work that's everyday practice now in the


name of you can't even allow your


children watch cartoon


all those


You just see man and man just now inside


your your you bet you you better flo to


be watching those cartoon


because it's influences


subtoal influences that is becoming


common now and it wasn't so before and


you think that's natural that's not


natural that's not natural that's not


natural that's not natural there are


many things because when we think


something is unseen we always believe


that it has to be h a devil that is


involved. I don't know why every time


you see something on you think of a


devil.


So be wellversed in scripture. So we we


taught around different concept the


concept of time and chance.


We taught around uh the different


functions functions of supernatural


beings.


We taught around the natural and the


supernatural should overlap. They should


work together. They should not be


fighting.


Abi.


Yes sir.


So we read different stories


where we can practice these things and


see these things firsthand. So the focus


this year was we said okay being wise


and strong with his powers. And we said


if we want to be wise and strong with


the powers of God what should we do?


So to make it easy they all overlap each


other. We said number one


faith. Thank you. Number one we said


faith will help us to be strong with the


power of God. And we said there is a


tensile nature of faith. I mean faith


can be weak. Faith can be little. So


it's up to you how you the kind of faith


you want to have.


But faith is in the power of God. But


you can be weak in faith and you can be


strong in faith. And we said faith


activates the ministry of angels. Ab


faith activates the unseen forces.


Faith can stop the negative unseen


forces. The shield of it. Faith can move


the good unseen forces. Amen.


Hallelujah. So I can have this influence


around me where it has come from my


faith. where you say that guy everything


just look different for him because


that's what he says.


I enjoy favor and gladness. I'm in I'm


in safety. I'm in joy. I'm in peace. He


says it a lot. It has now created an


influence for him that it looks unseen.


It


what did it happen? But it has been it


has been created which in the diabolical


we use the word it has been conjured but


for us it has been created by your


faith. So for you now it is end it is


unending joy.


For you now is uh streams of favor for


you now. It is gladness and protection.


You say it


you cannot use your mouth only for food.


You must use your mouth for the primary


use. It was made for to speak.


The mouth, the primary use of the mouth


is not food. It's to speak.


Is to speak. Is for things to enter not


just your mouth, but your life. So what


do you want to enter your mouth? What do


you want to enter your life? The Hebrew


used the word the Hebrew word for mouth


is and the Greek word for mouth shows


you that they saw mouth as a weapon.


Sto the front and edge of a weapon. They


saw mouth like your mouth is a weapon.


The mouth is a weapon. What you say,


what you say. And so we said by faith we


can release the power of God.


Amen.


I will not die.


I shall live.


Say


small boy. He's praying for safety.


He don't know that if I go I will come


back. There are people that were allowed


that English and know it does not exist.


There are people that are good than you


that left and did not come back. Stop


being presumptuous and


uh preemptive in how you are speaking in


that manner.


You will say it. You will say it. You


will continually say it so that you walk


on the side of life, not on the side of


death. You will say it. Why is it easy


to say every other thing that is good?


But when it comes to saying I'm in


safety, I live long, it can hard


Christians, especally you sounding


people. Why? Why is it hard for you to


be saying I live long? I live long. You


don't want to live long. You is that you


want to die. Then you buy into stupid


theology that say doesn't matter how


long you live. Not for you, not for me.


God forbid that stupidity. It matters


how long I live.


I shall live long.


The psalist said the grave cannot praise


you. This is how you you and that's why


we taught you about unseen forces


because now the man in Christ


knows the way


of death he can stop the gate. The same


way you can call a man back from death


onto life and say you will not die you


will live. is the same thing you you


must because


ah


just you have authority over the forces


of death too is where you you get


authority oh you have authority in


heaven on earth and under the earth you


have authority over all the worlds you


have authority over any creation or


decreation


because death is a decreation too


order disorder so as the ruling class


that put creation in order. I said death


you not today


and we saw the apostles do that


I'm ready to be offered then he say no


it's more that I stay instead of that I


should go it is death is speaking about


look death is now he's speaking of death


with such flowery terms


to go or to stay death that is the enemy


even Jesus that is I knew that right


from the getgo that it was born to die.


She said I laid down my life. No one


takes it from me.


Baba they born you to die. She said no


one takes it from meh sir. You will be


killed. He said no man take even on the


cross. You can see him struggling with


death because he's not used to that


contrary force.


He had to father into thy hand I commit


my then he gave up the ghost on his own


terms.


One day when


which is not always good that you need


experience to be teaching you you will


appreciate all the things that I'm doing


for you.


It's just like it's not like that you


will say it.


You see that's our sister shared that


her story


if hit her once that the third cape


my life is not in the road is not


one minute later bike don't tumble cake


was in her hand the cake did not even


scatter the cake was still intact


now film trick this one is greater than


film trick


stories we will tell you you even be


what happen here. That's the unseen


sir.


It rules over the sin


in the operation


the same way the sin can rule over the


unseen because the two words interlap


and the man now that functions in two


words has the the man which is you and I


the man in Christ Jesus. Use your


authority.


The centurion say I will say to one go


and it goes on come and come. That's the


same thing. I will say to to July go and


he go


the sun shall not smite.


You you will has thou commanded the


morning.


This is how it because that's the way


God commanded days to be. So I declare


the forces of time and chance favor me


in this July.


Yes. So


yes.


Hallelujah.


What we see


and It can we can be weak in faith. You


see that thing


our sister shared in the testimony she


kept insisting you have hope now.


Then she was now guided. That's the


other part where you now know what to


do. Wisdom you get the wisdom of which


you also inquire many times when you and


stop making God look and that's why I


hate all those unquable you are question


him. Oh,


he not go die quick. Question him. Oh,


that God, you can question God. Oh, and


that question is not challenging


because


I'm not saying the song is a wrong song.


It's just depending on your


interpretation of the unquestionable


because if your unquestionable means you


can't talk to God, not be Bible, you


read that one. We can talk to God. We


can ask God question. We can say what


minute this how shall this be? We should


be be asking question


say God told me to do this. Ask him how


ask him how would tomorrow be s.


It's not me. You go to you now come and


meet me and say sir. So how be when I


told you I I was I was I did not tell


you anything. Ask God. So what so what


will now happen next?


Ask question. Ask question. He learned


to ask questions.


But faith insist this how it will be and


this height will be in the name of


Jesus. You say it. So Mark 11:23 said


say prover 21 death and life are in the


power of the tongue.


The same way he say you shall be


satisfied with the fruit of it. Your


lips you shall be satisfied with the


fruit of your lips. Ah


So I know I will satisfy myself. Now if


it's the fruit of my lips that will


satisfy me then let me start saying but


now this is not just positive


confession. Is there any even look at


the negative on sin there must be


incantations and pronouncement.


You can't do anything on sin without


pronouncements without talking you close


mouth. I know. I know. I know. I know.


What they know? Nothing. The mind say


know what they know. Nothing meditated


or memorized. You say I know. You know


nothing. Nothing is working anything.


Wish is not the same thing as


meditation.


Which wish is not the same thing. Wish


has no force.


Wish has no force. Wish it has no force.


I I wish. No. No. No. Desire greater


than wishes.


wishes. I uh when I I I I wish this w


that's in fantasy land to have desires.


Desires are stronger than I wish. I wish


I wish


I desire it compares action.


Speak what say you? I believe I believe


God.


The life of faith we said is not in


sense knowledge but in revelation


knowledge. Then he said the place of


prayer.


The angel impacted great skill and


understanding


to Daniel in Daniel chapter 9 prayer


activates the ministry of angels. Peter


in prison and they prayed for him. He


was delivered from prison and from the


negative expectations of the people.


Acts 12 say God delivered me from the


expectation. But you notice Satan took


Satan took what? uh which is he but you


are reading h but Satan Satan took James


is a Jame a James a don't kill


and he proceeded further


satanic protocol you do nothing for the


first one say uh the first one second


one it become a pattern now


don't be allowing such foolishness in


your life the first one


vehicle jamming The second one ve the


third one is not ve die.


The first one, the second one, the


third one, first one, second one. Third


one is not miscarriage soon be no womb.


Continue to be to be doing soft hand


with the devil. They not used to do soft


hand


in the things that the god


god has dealt with them. That's what J


said Genesis uh Exodus 18. It thinks


that the God has dealt with them.


Let the Lord be jealous over you. Show


that you have no allegiance to any other


God. Show that you have no allegiance in


how you speak.


Yahweh is the maintainer of my lot.


He is enough.


See, there's this place you will go.


Hey, now how to kill you?


Satan takes more than he gives.


Look at how many young boys lives have


been destroyed in the nonsense they call


Yahoo plus and and day they can never


see enough money miserable life. Satan


takes more than he gives. So


now the person 35 years 40 years


some of them you have invited into


churches. One of those birthday days I


was praying laying hand some people I


don't know maybe it was his first time


of coming out I touched his head I just


saw him back


and I helped him how God used to save


people only God know if he will go back


and go and reactivate the things because


I stopped it cuz so I pressed the hand


more as I saw it and I settled the hand


he fell I told him no that's that


negative influence


from the shrine they have assembled


somebody to be follow him they followed


because follow come so foolish cause


follow and come. No guest says take go


outside. Come see come.


And I was preaching. You saw I can see


that I'm not blind. You you saw that my


eye open. See, come come see come hide.


Immedely the hand say I hear you seek


the


no more.


Remind me of that story as of that man


that got born again that had the magic


ring that the ring disappeared as I laid


down so to be filled with the spirit of


God


saying now you never see anything


[Music]


live life more some people some the way


they talk you know that maybe they are


five or seven because I can't believe


they are passing age because they they


speak without any experience


No, he's not being superstitious. And


stop thinking like I said to somebody, I


said, "How do you have the wisdom for a


reporter?


He's from Africa." Now, make everything


Africa. Africa. Stop having those


things. So


your the developed nations are some of


the most demonized people on the earth.


Just well demonized with suit.


Well demonized with suit and fine


dresses.


No.


The place of prayer and fellowship you


must talk to God. Amen. In prayer you


command power. James chapter 5. And we


see different things that can happen.


And we saw supernatural beings being


released. The same thing break off wrong


influences in the place of prayer. You


know that this chorus so you they hear


voice. I just want to I I have been


observing you woman. Two of us will


fight today. Some of those things is is


just demonic influence because it's not


everything that the devil


it's not everything that the devil is


doing yak yak you will die you will die


you will die no


h there is also deceive


satan has the beguiling face


that serpentile beguiling just as the


serpent beguiled Eve through his


subutility to look like it's your own


But


I'm an independent woman. Aha.


Some people when I hear them talk, I


just say aha.


Now on I just aha. In order not to make


them scared, I said so what is now the


next course of action? Ah me I'm done.


It has proceeded further. It all because


the voices


have a stench


of foul spirit is speaking through that


mouth.


The same Peter if Jesus did not say get


behind would not have known that Satan


influences speech many times. This thing


you are saying now does not follow them.


You should be able to catch yourself and


say no no no this thing I'm saying is a


wrong is a wrong influence that is


making me say these words. I shouldn't


be saying things like this. I said, "Oh,


guy, he was just saying things don't


ever work well for me. Oh, I don't even


know again what's going to happen next.


Anybody can just die anytime. You know,


life is just life is just life is just


thank God I was there." I held his hand


say students are talking but I could see


death all around him. My the way I saw


it, I saw that if he just left us


naturally just jam him. That's how the


vision came to me that if you just come


here now


let me exercise priesthood for you since


you are in my space


death overshadow in my space I have


dominion over my space so so I now


squeeze his hand


and he said that's what I was seeing I


said what he said I'm just tired let me


go home yeah go home and sleep sir


Because your walls are not friendly to


your soul. The conversations you having


with your need to go and sleep. They


kill each other. Say just the way my


What are you going through? Just one F.


People have had more F than that. What


is this sentence against


the serpent deceives? So


he would this because it's not


everything that is on


where is his picture. I say oh so that


is his picture


go you didn't know the other name


it's just that one will not work the one


that works faster than all those


stabbing mirror and blowing blowing


powder


is to deceive you and the greatest of


the deception is to deceive you for you


to now destroy your life by yourself


Because yes that's why you must be


careful the sgestions you buy into the


thoughts that you say you may think I'm


not thinking well but I'm thinking well


that's the proof you're not thinking


well


that's the proof you're not thinking


well but people will not because nobody


ever used to believe that it's a wrong


influence so if we use demon they will


be scared so it's wrong influence


but we know sh influence is a demonic


influence but we just say it's wrong


influence


Because which kind of conversation is


this? No, no, no, no, no.


In prayer you become discerning.


In prayer, you command power. Jesus


said, "I could you have called pray to


the father now. We send 12 legions."


Matthew 26:53. In prayer, we know the


will of God. In prayer, we are


sensitive. In prayer, we drop our


anxiety. We said a lot of things.


The third we said the place of


meditation and internalizing God's word.


Joshua 1 vers8 this book of you shall


meditate. How much have you used? Use


God's word to clean your mind. Use God's


word to form pictures of possibility


mindset of greatness. Use Use God's word


though. Use God's word to know your


authority over the devil. Know it as you


know your name. that the devils are


under your feet. Eat it. Know that


anywhere the devil rises up against you,


you will deal with him.


Anywhere. Any which way you will win.


Any which way you will win.


Say,


[Music]


you will stay on God's word. So that


until you are sure. Some people the


reason why they still fear because they


have not seen it. Read God's word, stay


on God's word, meditate on it, soak it


until it remove fear from your eye,


remove fear from your life, remove all


those negativity. Then all of a sudden


like


it will work. It should work.


Timidity is not of God. I told you when


life punishes timidity.


Once life catch you say tim say strangle


and they die. Life punishes timidity.


Have you not seen all the people you


know that


they go down they have this down they


just started going. It is just the


beginning. They will keep going down


more in the name of timidity. Ah it's


the same thing is another side of it is


cowardice. Another side of it is is


limiting belief.


I don't feel like somebody like me


deserve anything like this. Yes. Yes.


Continue. Continue speaking to how the


day should favor you. Tomorrow will


learn it. Tomorrow have learned from


today. What you allow is what? Tomorrow.


Today is learning from days. Oh.


And the day we proceed further


that time I enter you


use God's word to to form


interpretations of things and life


we don't fear what so you will talk you


can't 24 hours in ah no so soak yourself


in God's word number four we talked


about submission and orchestrated


action.


Submission and orchestrated actions.


So


submission and orchestrated action


you submit under God.


James chapter 4 and verse 7


6 into 7 it says he giveth more grace


wherefore he said God resists the proud


but gives grace unto the humble submit


yourself therefore to God resist the


devil and he will flee from thee now see


that is not a mistake first Peter 5 be


sober be vigilant because your adversary


the devil as a ringing lion walketh


about seeking whom he may devour Wow.


Sometimes the devil wears another face.


He doesn't wear a serpentine face. He


wears a rowing lion face to to to bring


discouragement your way so that you can


be broken so that it's all over. Never


discouragement. No be discouragement,


condemnation, fear. That's ringing. Oh,


answer him. Answer back. Answer back


those discouragement.


Answer back that discouragement.


Pursue, overtake, recover all. David was


discouraged. The same people that risk


their life to give him water, they were


ready to kill David. It has never


happened before. The 3D people that he


brought out, they were in distress, in


depth and discontent. And he made them


mighty men. For 13 years, he had been a


master over them. Ah.


24 hours time Saul was dead. In less


than 8 days time he was king. Imagine


David had given up


many times once you at the edge of your


breakthrough is where all of those


things come. So it's not working again.


It's not stop praying. Stop praying. You


see prayer did not work now. Didn't you


see that not work? Stop. Didn't you see


that the speaking did not work? Didn't


you see that the things you said did not


work? Didn't you see if you were


supposed to be favored this week is it


not Friday that we have reached now the


week has finished now I beg I beg the


week


one day to the end of the year the year


has not finished


even by mean I remember correcting


pastor man like that we talking


for you not finish for me sit there sit


there I see


not finish like that


no every it must drop everything


it You must drop everything. Have that


insistence mentality.


Submission. Oh, submit unto God. Resist


the devil whom resist steadfast in the


face.


But we submit unto God.


Submit yourself to God. Submit yourself.


Submit yourself therefore to God. Submit


yourself to God. Hallelujah.


The place of submission is where we say,


"I'm sold out to God and his purposes."


I'm sold out to God and his purposes.


I'm sold out to God and his purposes is


one interpretation of that word. I


submit. I am subject. I'm under him. I'm


sold out to the purposes of God. So


Satan knows he can't find anything of


his with me.


say when a spirit it goes through the


wilderness goes through dry places. Is


that not what Jesus said? When a spirit


an unclean spirit is gone out Matthew 12


Matthew 12:43 When the unclean spirit is


gone out of a man he walketh through dry


places seeking rest and findeth none.


Then he saith, I will return unto my


house from whence I came out. And when


he is come, he finded it empty. Swept


and garnished. You see, he find it


empty.


Finded it empty. Swept and garnished. I


taught you this last year.


He find it empty. Swept and garnished.


Then goeth he and taketh with him seven


other spirits more wicked than himself.


And they entering and dwell there. And


the last of the man is worse than the


first.


They find it empty, swept and garnished.


Don't leave any place in your heart. Oh,


don't leave any place. Oh, submit


yourself to God. Live under submit. How


do you submit yourself to God? Submit


yourself to his word. Submit yourself to


his plan. Submit yourself to his


purposes. submitting to God because this


one is more involved in every day


because it's not every time you h you


know to to speak about this matter


it's not every time ah


because even when you are not speaking


you are still under submission to you


when you're a child of God be conscious


acts chapter 13 let's I let me just read


a lot of text for this Acts 13 as to


round off from this point. Acts 13. We


talked about this on Wednesday.


Acts 13.


Acts 13:36.


For David, after he had served his own


generation by the will of God, fell on


sleep. After he had served his own


generation by the will of God, do you


serve the will of God? Do you live for


the will of God? Do you live for the


purposes of God?


Do you


Philippians chapter 2


verse three. Let nothing be done through


strife or vain glory, but in loneliness


of mind, let each esteem other better


than themselves. Look not every man on


his own, but every man also on the


things of others. Let this mind being


which was also in Christ Jesus. Who


being the form of God not robbery to be


equal with God. It goes on and on to


verse 10 that at the name of Jesus every


knee shall bow of things in the heaven,


things in the earth, things under the


earth. Let this mind be you which also


in Christ. Let this mind


you say I submit. Submit to be under the


word. Let this mind be in you.


Acts chapter 10.


Acts chapter 10. There was a certain man


in sinceria called Cornelius. A


centurion of the band called Italian


band. A devout man. one that feared God


with all his house which gave much harm


to the people and prayed to God always.


He saw in a vision evidently about the


ninth hour is not born again. Yet the


northern apostles tell us that


this a Christian


for you to see an angel you need 99


years


of of hard work and labor. Hear the I


somebody else husband


that is not saved at all.


Angel of the Lord appeared to her of


every angel of the Lord. You would have


thought God will send an angel. God came


himself.


Don't know God.


Stop talking for God when you don't know


God. That's the angel of the Lord. Malak


Yahweh sir, you do not need to.


Hey girl say don't let anybody makes the


things of the spirit too far for you say


you know I'm not really I the most


church came behind no gift


don't for any reasons submit your head


to the devil to mess it up


he saw in a vision evidently about the


ninth hour of the day an angel of the


lord coming into him and saying unto him


Cornelius


and when he looked upon him. He was


afraid and said, "What is it, Lord?" And


he said unto him, "Thy prayers and thy


arms are come up for a memorialia before


God."


So the angels were observing his


actions. So go back to verse two and see


how was described. A devout man, one


that feared God with all his house.


one that feared God with all his


angels observe for the fear of God in


your life.


Notice when Abraham said to his wife,


surely the fear of God is not in this


place. They will slay me for my wife's


sake. That's why he lied though that


lie. So it was that Genesis 21. He said


the fear surely the fear of God is not


in this place. Genesis 20:1 surely the


fear of God is not in this place. So


there are place that has no fear of God.


How much more you no fear of God in your


life? Ah, no fear God though. Submit to


God.


Submit to God.


Psalm 34.


Psalm 34.


Live in submission under God. Psalm 34.


Look at what angels do. The angel of the


Lord encamp around about them that


and delivered them. Sir, do you fear


God?


I fear God. Oh, I'm born again. No, not


that one. Not saying you are born again.


Is are you really living in submission


to God? Because you should. And it's not


about being perfect in all your ways


because


in the sense of I never make any


mistake. That's not what we are saying.


Is your heart you know this thing starts


from the heart before you are looking at


actions. Is your heart bowed to the


lordship of God in your heart? That's


the cing about David. He will worship no


other thing.


I will not worship sex. I will not


worship fame. I will not worship money.


I will not worship power.


You say it. Oh, they look me. Say those


are things in your heart. The


conversations of your soul. You must


settle it that no, I will serve God all


the days of my life. They know. There's


nothing like backsliding.


I can never have anything to do with sin


and the devil again. I can never have to


do with


no no


ah


I will never have anything that is


submission and surrender. Live a life of


submission and surrender to God and your


actions will straighten. The Lord appear


to him and say walk down before me and


be thou perfect. That is you always see


angels in that action. What was the


conversation in Job chapter one? Does


Job fear you for nothing? Have I not put


a head? So the angels were around him


because of fear, because he of the fear


of the Lord.


You want to attract unseen forces, be a


man of faith.


See, I'm giving you the hackle. You want


to attract unseen forces, influences and


power, whether God, supernatural beings


or other goodwill of men, you will


believe. You will by faith in prayer.


You will meditate that one. H


finish. You will meditate and stay on


God's word.


Soak in God's word.


Soak in God's word. What is that? Psalm


100 Psalm 103. It say the angels that do


your word, you could. Are you a man that


does God's word? When you are a man that


does God's word, you and angels are


doing collab because they they attend to


God's word then you are now all about


that word.


Soak yourself in and you see those


influences. You see that it's easy and I


gave you the Mark chapter one while he


taught on these things. Think on the


word. Meditate.


Soak in God's word. Renew your mind the


same way people hear voices.


The same way people Yeah. Uh the devil


is speaking to people in their see


supernatural beings are attracted


to your life when you fear God.


Amen. The angel of the Lord then come


round about them that fear him and


deliverth them


Psalm 91.


He that in the secret place of the most


high shall abide on the shadow of the


almighty I will say of the Lord refuge


and fortress my God in him will I trust.


Surely he shall deliver me from the


snare of the fowler from shall cover


thee with his feather on his wing shall


thou trust. His truth shall be thy


shocker. Thou shall not be afraid for


the terror by night, nor for the arrow


that fl by day, nor for the president


that walketh in darkness, nor for


destruction that wasted at noon day. A


thousand shall fall at thy side, and


10,000 at the right hand, but shall not


come night. Only with thy eyes shalt


thou behold and see the reward of the


wicked. Allow the wicked to be rewarded.


Stop telling God to not reward them.


Leave. Leave. Leave. Let God do. Let God


be God. Just pray. Just live your life.


Don't be having your own unsanctified


mercy


because thou has made the Lord which is


this where I was going because because


thou has made the Lord which is my


refuge even the most high thy habitation


make the Lord your habitation


where shall I go even in the face this


is another hack even the face of doing


what is wrong say


always have that posture of


David said anyone if I fall into your


hand no I rather fall to your hand say


but I will kill you I to your hand I


rather be your answer whether it's for


good or bad as as long as it's your hand


I go there sir I rather be your answer


rather be your hand that's 24 ting floor


story where number this dress


the chronicle 21 story as well. Ah,


I will fall into your hand sir. They


gave me the three option say I prefer


the one that I fall into God's hand.


Anything anything do of me that


submission to God


because he has made the Lord which is I


love David even my refuge is most


habitation is my own that you made your


your habitation. He personalized the


matter.


I'm sold out to the purpose of God.


Psalm 89. You must reverence God though


because that's what the angels


themselves don't joke with. Psalm 89


verse 6.


For who in the heavens can be compared


unto the Lord? Who among the sons of the


mighty shall be likened unto the Lord?


Who is greatly to be feared in the


assembly of the saints? and to be had in


reverence of all them that are about


him. Reverence for all them that are


around about him. Reverence for all


them. Do you rever God?


[Music]


So I better get go and die.


I saw one stupid uh I didn't watch it


but I saw the write up so I did not even


bother clicking it.


I saw one of you follow the page so it


showed like many of your names.


That's why all those things come to me


because things have unfollowed. So the


only way I can see some things is it has


to be from you people who are who are


seeing those things on Facebook. So


that's why the algorithm is bringing it


my way and I will now say I don't want s


will you forgive God for the things God


has done. They forgive God though. No


better for you they forgive God. What


have you been through? Better go and


deal with the devil that is trying to


destroy your life. And they were saying,


"Yeah, because you need to release the


hot. You need to release the heart for


God."


First it was fire,


then he turned to your death.


Your wrong way of speaking. This is how


you lose your life.


You are forgiving God. You are in the


hand of Satan. Sir, this is this is all


Satan has waited for all his life. The


day you will relinguish and say God I


don't have anything to do with you. So


that


you say you are doing old testament you


turn your back against the lord turn to


because you don't know the thing. You


can't predict when you will start but


you don't know how it will end.


Get doctrine on those matter and know


that it's not God. Which one is I I


release because God has failed me. Huh?


It's not God that failed you.


It's your country. It's your father.


It's your mother. It's the devil. It's


your friends. Leave God out of it. Oh.


Which one is God? God. God has failed


me. I trusted on the Lord.


Not get prayer life. I trusted on the


Lord. We we can let's not focus on you


because we can find many loopholes. Say


you say God God fed me. Which God are we


talking about here? The one of your


belly cuz that's the one every day


dragging chicken. The day he told you


fast and pray you did not. The other


week he came to you again fast and pray


you did not. The other day said give


this thing to that your friend because


you know that your friend is a praying


person. So that you give you that gift.


The person will now say it is for you.


Just so that somebody can order it is


for you. is not the later you now heard


that h


we have used bandage to tie the leg and


hang it up that's what god was


delivering you from now say I did not


just get any sign really for all those


sign for four weeks were for the


ancestors


don't use your life to be playing


hard in reverence of all them that are


round about him look at Genesis 26:24


say For now I know that you fear me. The


angel of the Lord said look there's a


rank caught in a ticket


that thou has not withha thy son thy


only son that Genesis 26 story


Abraham see the angel of the Lord attach


himself to him. That fear of God that


submission to God and his plans and


purpose. He say for Abraham look at the


other place again. For Abraham is my


friend. Can I hide what I do? That's how


to attract supernatural beings. Can I


hide what I do?


Seeing that Abraham sh and he shall


command his children after me. God cares


about posterity.


We we have I have sentenced my lifetime,


my generation unborn, and it will be a


memorial passed on for all times. We


serve the Lord in this lineage. Yes sir.


The angel of the Lord that had fed me


all my lifelong that had redeemed me


from all evil. Bless the lad.


Let thy name be named up


because the next one will pass it to the


next one.


They're not


which one is they will serve the Lord


serve the Lord. I I've used confession


to I'm even singing it. As for me and my


house, thank God for that saint


committee song. We serve the Lord


though. You serve. You serve the Lord. I


sing it. Sing it. They'll be hearing it.


Serve the Lord. They say who is on the


Lord's side? All of my children on the


Lord's side. I can answer for them


before they can answer for themsel.


Yeah.


You answer for say you are a man of God.


Say yeah, you a man of God. I don't for


Satan. Talk now so that we know if you


will live long.


So that we can b more to replace all


this ones that we don't have.


I'm joking. Oh,


you know I'm playing sh


I'm playing. Please I'm really playing.


But the point is don't give birth to


train that will not serve God.


Don't waste procreation.


Don't waste procreation. Don't waste it.


Because the reason why you want to be a


father should not be because you just


want to be big big head running around


you


that you still live and want to walk.


No. For I know that he will command his


children after me so that God is glad to


give you gifts.


So I say God now you give me this


speaking. Ah yes this one. Yes. This one


is another Yes. Aha. This another


priest. Yes. More prophets are being


born.


Be anything. Be anything. I I tell be


anything. You can be anything in this


life. Can be a dog. If I be a doctor, be


an engineer. Be a pilot.


But you're a man of God. That's it.


That's be any other thing. Be 50 things,


but you shall serve the Lord. That one


is the most important one. As for me and


my house, settle it early so that the


angel of the Lord that is by the door


knows


It's an NJ in your house. Oh,


you're the watch. Say nice one. Nice


one. Nice one. Nice one.


For me and my house. We will serve the


Lord. Settle it early.


Are you here?


Settle it early. No,


I mean have friends. Put structure in


your life that allows you to be sold out


to God, to submit to God. Have friends


you pray with. Have friends that ask you


when last which Bible verse you read


this week which so that surround


yourself with structures that allow you


submit to God. saw me because that thing


that's the one Satan fears where there's


no place he comes and there's no space.


Jesus said the prince of this world has


come but he has found nothing in me.


There's nothing that is attracting him.


He still come see find


nothing in me.


I see for Jesus. Oh you think now think


baba think. Try try think this thing


sister has come for Jesus he will come


for you sir whether you pray or not but


he will not find because he will see a


man and this is not it's not your


morality that is making him to find


because it's that you are under the


blood stay that's what I trying to tell


you it's not about because it's not your


morality that gives you authority is the


name of Jesus that gives you authority


that context those don't take a verse


outside the certain the certain days


that devotion to God because what did


Satan do in the temptation? Was it about


morality or about letting Jesus serve


Satan's purposes? That was the


temptation. Now, that the same thing


with Adam and Eve.


Don't be God's man. Hell, now you


realize that the greatest conflict in


your life is will you be God's man or


you will not be God's man. I'm God's


man.


God's man.


I'm God. I'm always God's man. Even in


the point of weakness, I'm still God's


man.


I open.


Hey, I'm God's man. Hey, cannot try to


be any other thing. Satan has lost. Many


years ago, uh almost 12 now, one of the


boys then I was teaching the things of


the spirit just looked at me and shouted


say, "Ah, sir,


Satan has lost in your life." You know,


he was still new to this vision thing.


There was something he saw. Sh say hey I


saw that


you can never miss Rodo that was he was


just see the way and he was even let


down because of honor because he was


saying ah sir I'm seeing many things


he has lost


nothing you see that word nothing


nothing will make me not serve God that


is not a um so So there's it doesn't


mean of nothing.


Okay, let me move. Nothing and no one.


Some of you say uh some people are that


stupid because they know talk to their


wife and husband say my husband doesn't


want me to serve God. Hey,


see


nothing and no one


should stop you from serving the Lord.


What kind of stupid marriage is that


one? Stupid love life is that one. Go


and find your God-fearing Beyonce and


leave me


and find your God-fearing Kadibbe.


You know what you they look for.


I will serve the Lord.


I will serve the Lord.


I will serve the Lord.


The same thing I'm telling you young


ladies. So you better settle that matter


now.


Baba, I I deserve God. You see I'm I


serve God. So I will continue to serve


God. You agree. Have been agree


not destroy my life


because it's only you that will destroy


your own because the day you want me to


not serve God we move


not follow you I don't follow you


worship idol I will not follow you


to kiss the ring of another no and that


was the thing about he say he serve Lord


with his whole heart


that thing ah


is Number one in the ministry of angels.


They pursue you. They follow say what


they do again. Let's observe him. Let's


observe her. Let's observe him. Sold out


to the purposes of God. You see that


Jesus will have what he died for. Living


for assignment.


Hallelujah.


I live for the Lord.


I live for the Lord.


Say I know. I know. I know I


say so now I know that Abraham fears me.


Did I say Genesis 26 that time? Genesis


um


Did I say Genesis 26?


22. I beg. Oh, it's 22.


I say the story every time. I don't know


how I said 26. I 26. What is it? 26F.


Oh, Isaac sold in there. Okay. Okay.


Verse 12. Genesis 22:12. And he said, ay


not thy hand upon the land, neither do


thou anything unto for now I know. You


see this thing. That's why we tell you


be careful of those doctrine. Now I know


that thou fearst God. You see that God


is not omnicient. Allow God. See God


requires proof.


It's not because he's not omnisient.


Stop making your life without proof. Say


God should know now. God should know.


Show proof. Show proof in your life.


Show proof. And this is what brings that


I will tell you guys on Friday in the


prayer meeting where God say from today


all those from is that that


angels


sacrifice.


Submission is a life of sacrifice. A


life of surrender to God. That


submission


that is the thing that spirits fear most


say run this is the wrong house wrong


address wrong life this one is for God


cuz the angel of the Lord encamp round


about


say does job fear you for nothing


liar job actually fear God last is it


not clear job fear God


were built around him. The Lord is with


me. The Lord is with me.


Hallelujah.


Angels over sacrifice.


Every time you see sacrifice


and this sacrifice


literally or the use of the word


sacrifice, let me show you some.


Let's just stay in Judges a bit.


Stay in judges a bit.


And Gideon verse after he had said to


Gideon.


And when Gideon perceived that he was an


angel of the Lord, Gideon said, "Alas,


oh Lord God, for because I have seen an


angel of the Lord face to face." And the


Lord said unto him, "Peace be unto thee,


fear not, you shall not die." vers 26.


And he built an altar unto the Lord thy


God. And built an altar unto the Lord


thy God upon Judges 6 verse 26


in the ordered place and take the second


bulock and offer a burnt sacrifice with


the wood of the grove which thou shalt


cut down. This is different. So this is


not animal sacrifice for the forgiveness


of sin. Learn the difference. This is


not animal sacri for forgiveness of sin.


This is erecting an altar and this


erecting an altar is the same thing we


talk about a life of incense. A life we


see in Ephesians how we use that word


sacrifice. It has different context you


see it. So don't have the word


sacrifice. Always think about


peace offering, sin offering, trespass


offering, heave or wave offering. Not


that one. He offered a burnt offering


with the wood of the grove which thou


shalt cut down.


Look at 21


where the whole story start. And the


angel of the Lord said unto him, take


the flesh and the unleaven cake and lay


them upon the rock and pour out the


broth. And he did so. Verse 21. Then the


angel of the Lord put forth the end of


the staff that was in his hand and


touched the flesh of the unleaven cakes


and then rose up what


sign angels signs and wonder out of the


rock and consume the flesh of the


unleaven cake and angel of the lord


departed out of his sight.


So that's the first one. The second one


again because he was not afraid when he


saw that the angel disappeared. This is


the angel of the Lord that go die. The


angel of appeared again


and he still offered sacrifice. Never


think God is against you living a life


because that's the Christian devotion.


The church is the living sacrifice holy


and acceptable unto God. Our life is a


life of sacrifice. That is the


submission. Romans 12:1 that is the


Christian life. Our life is a life of


submission and surrender to God. Our


life is a life of submission and


surrender to God.


Amen.


Judges chapter 13. Look at Manuel. The


same thing.


Judges chapter 13


where the angel of the Lord appeared and


said, and the angel of the Lord appeared


unto the woman, verse three, and said,


"Behold now, thou art and beest not, but


thou shalt conceive and bear a son." So


then the husband was not at home. So he


Emanuel entreated the Lord and said, "Oh


my Lord, let the man of God which thou


did send come again and teach us what we


shall do unto the child that has been


born." Verse 8. So look at verse 12. And


Manuelah said, "Now let thy words come


to pass. How shall we order the child


and how shall we do? You ask question,


you interact." And then of the Lord said


unto all that I said unto the woman. So


the list went on. Now go to 18. And the


angel of the Lord said unto him, why act


thou toss after my name? Because it's


unimportant because the names of angel


reflect God because they are a sign


to point to the power and of God. That's


why all the angels their names point


back to God. So it's not about the name


because they are always there to point


you back to God except they want to


become devils which is the origin of


devils when they don't want to serve


that function. And angel of the Lord


said unto him, why has thou toss after


my name? Seeing it is a secret. Emanuel


took a kid


with a meat offering and offered it upon


a rock unto the Lord. And the angel did


what?


Did one. Look at the angel increase in


strength.


It seem like my angels are weak. It


seems like the way you did they do


that's why they are not they are not


they are not showing their true face.


That's why they strong hand. Follow this


matter with strong hands are


and there was there's something you


would do that will get an angel to do


wondously. That's the word. The angels


that excel in strength. This is the same


word.


The angel did wonders. Emanuel and his


wife looked and it came to pass when the


flame went up towards heaven from the


altar that the angel of the Lord


ascended in the flame of the altar. And


Manuel and his wife looked on and fell


on their faces of the ground. It was


clear be


in the first Chronicles 21 story which


is the David story. Remember the where


did the angel of the Lord that


destroying angel where did he stop? at


Aruna's on Aruna in somewhere in


Chronicle used the word on O R N A N on


In


the Aruna. So in Aruna's stretching


floor was where that angel with his


sword drawn out.


Immediately the name of the Lord spoke


to the prophet G and he came to tell


David offer a sacrifice. As David looked


for where to offer sacrifice, he finally


saw he said give me. The man said, "No,


no, no, no, no, sir. Now take it is


free." He said, "No, I will not offer


unto God that which cost me nothing."


Bible says in that 1st Chronicles 21


that immediately he had finished


offering the sacrifice, what happened


that destroying angel stopped.


And David said unto her, "Grant me this


place of the treing floor that I may


build an altar therein unto the Lord.


Thou shalt grant it to me for the full


price. That the plague be stayed from


the people. And honor said, take it to


thee, my lord, and say, no, no, no, n, I


will verily buy it from thee, for I will


not take that which is dying for the


Lord, nor offer b offerings without


cause. It must I want you to cost me


something.


David bu an altar unto the Lord. Verse


26, and offered burnt offerings and


peace offering, and called upon the


Lord, and he answered from heaven by


fire.


Lord answered with fire. is our God.


And he answered him from heaven by fire


upon the altar of burnt offering. And


the Lord commanded the angel, and he put


up his sword again into the


Are you seeing it?


So unshit your sword. Put it back into


place. Put it back into the scabbard.


I go.


And when David saw that the Lord had


answered him the treing floor of all


night, then he sacrificed there


for the tabernacle of the Lord which


Moses made in the wilderness and the


altar of the burnt offens were at that


season in the high place at Gibon. And


David could not go before it to inquire


of the Lord for he was afraid because of


the sword. I mean there are things you


even a man of encounters. There are some


things you see Baba I like that


there are sightes


there are sightes that are we call it


other worldly appearances


[Music]


other worldly appearances say I I want


to I really love the ministry of angel


love


so


be open to such wonders. Amen.


Look at what the the angel of the Lord


said. Thy arm prayer and thy armsgiving


has come as a memorial. The word


memorialia there is the same metaphor


for incense has come as a memorial unto


the Lord. A guy is not saved but God has


been seeing the kind of life he lives.


He feared God. A devout man. He's not


saved though, but he's having those kind


of devotion.


Hallelujah.


Philippians chapter 4.


Philippians chapter 4.


Philippians chapter 4.


Verse 18,


verse 16 down to 19. For even in


Thessalonica sent once and again unto my


necessity, not because I desire a gift,


but I desire fruit that may abound to


your account. But I have all and abound.


And I'm full having received a


perforator of the things which were sent


from you an order of a sweet a sacrifice


acceptable well pleasing to


notice what he called their giving.


They are giving to him. He called it a


sweet


smell a sacrifice acceptable well


pleasing to God. But my God shall supply


all your needs. It's telling you it's


not he called what they gave to him


sacrifice that well pleasing to God


because this and it was not w giving


which is a test on your consecration


will you give to someone that doesn't


need your money that's that show you


honor God because the man had need the


person have need it's always easy to


give that type of giving that is welfare


giving but you said not because there


was necessity but over and again you


minister so you went beyond. So this was


not a matter of welfare or necess this


was honor. That's why I call it a sweet


because honor is a sweet smell. A


sacrifice acceptable unto God. Honor is


a good thing. God will never have an


issue with honor. Hallelujah.


Acts of generosity is not the only thing


about sacrifice. Look at that word


again. It's not the only thing so that


you don't hear what I'm not saying. And


nothing is also wrong with giving as a


gen. Nothing wrong with ask of


generosity. Don't let the extreme of


something stop you. It may be abused in


many quarters but no cup of cold water


you give will lose his reward. Jesus


said that's letters in red.


Mark 12


Mark 12:33.


Mark 12:33. One to go.


Mark 12:33. And


with all the soul with all the strength


and torifice.


What is more than burnt offering and


sacrifice? Loving the Lord with all your


heart. Is that not serve the Lord with


all your heart? Submission to God is


greater than every burnt offering and


sacrifice. Which is what they were doing


in the Old Testament. Born offering and


sacrifice God. They were trying to say I


submit to you because erecting altar


means I want this forever. I am forever


yours in worship. So I erect an altar to


say that I'm forever here to worship


you.


Live a life of surrender.


Hallelujah.


Look at Ephesians 5.


Ephesians 5:2.


Don't worry about time. Listen. Focus.


Focus. Focus. I'm changing your life


here.


Be ye therefore followers of God as dear


children and walk in love. Walk in love


as Christ also had loved us and has


given himself for us an offering and a


sacrifice to God a sweet smelling servo.


What did he call that giving of love?


Giving himself selflessness.


Selflessness. God observes those


selflessness. The things you do for


others that selflessness you carry


somebody else matter on your head. Every


selflessness


is a sacrifice.


Amen.


Acts of selflessness,


acts of consecration, generosity,


living for what God is about, not what


you are about. Not worshiping God on


your own terms. worshiing God on God's


own terms. What do you want Lord? That's


what I want to do. Not what Lord do what


I want. As if God God lives for you. No,


I live for him. That kind of life is the


life angels are attracted to.


Hallelujah.


This is one of the fastest way. And once


you do this, the second thing you must


now be be conscious. Remember that


angels don't have wings. I've warned


you. I've begged you. I've taught you.


Stop having angels with wings. You will


know that angels don't the only angels


that have wings are not angels. They are


not called angels. It is cheerful beams


that have wings because they are hybrid


creatures. They represent all creation


in worship of God.


When God behold the cheerful beams, he


seen those other things that cannot


worship him other than humans. So cherub


beans represent all of creation. That's


why they look like all the different


animals and plants. They have different


faces, different appearances. Looking


like lion, looking like eagle, looking


like ox, looking like snake, looking


they because it's all creation because


all creation gives glory to God. So


through the cho beams, all creation


gives glory to God continually. They are


daily before his face and the chro beams


hold the throne of God. So the two chro


beams upon it the mercy seat where is


called the throne of God. Old Testament


practice all over the tabernacle they


plaster picture of chub beams to show


that all the earth glorifies God.


There's something I mean you cannot miss


out that angels don't joke with a life


of worship of God.


The Lord said to me that even if you


don't want to be prophetic again you'll


be prophetic. I will even cause your


errors to be correct.


Since that time auto correct


that one is different from office of a


prophet. That one is different from


being a prophetic individual.


They are blessings that stay.


They are


unseen forces.


Thy arms giving has come up as his


memorialia.


See if you if you give to the poor I


will repay you. You say God will not


repay you. You you think God God is not


unrighteous to forget your labor of


love.


God calls himself I am the father of the


poor. I'm the father of the widow. You


say is bad to give to the poor. Wicked


man. Give to the poor. Give to it's not


only pastors. Don't take what I'm This


has nothing to do with pastors. So live


a life of sacrifice. You knew that you


were supposed to leave the change. I


remember that day I walked back to that


woman. All the money. Oh, beautiful.


This example work. There was really


money in my pocket. I packed all the


money in my hand. It was far more than


the woman was in tears. See this one we


pay my child school fees. Now I say it


is well.


The word I said was blessings. I sounded


like a man of God that day. blessings.


It was the orance that came out from my


mouth. A spirit passed


blessings and I look like angel daddy.


Even me I know say ah this man of God I


was working


it's many you know when I enter Keralas


ah by so this I'm telling you is many


years ago well over 12


shortly


all the money in my pocket it was some


thousands I choked it into her hand and


I said blessings


say this one will pay my children thank


you sir thank you sir just I've just


been thinking I I It's like I just could


not stop. So there was one time I was


buying something along the road and I


said to the man that's not the amount


now cuz he just done on me that that's


not the amount. I said you'd have just


said you needed more money. I said take


this other 2,000 give me for the rep


price


said you have already paid more than the


money. I said give me for the rep price


just do things well. Say


my mother used to say I should be a good


person. I say hacking to the voice of


your mother. You never can tell the day.


But you have I have set him up for life.


Oh, hacking to those that things


the poor, the widow, the orphans. Don't


joke with those kind of people in doing


good. Oh, they they give you hack, they


give you cheat code.


I show you a mystery.


Let me sound like not an apostles. I


show you a mystery.


I show you a mystery. Oh,


recently the pastors different pastors


in the mission field called me that


somebody sent 600,000 one of you here. I


said that brother have set himself up


again. Send me this. I said ah one


person just sent to everywhere said did


you pray for? They say yes. I said pray.


You know


some of us one of the reasons why we


can't even go down is that so many


people they have blessed us with tears


and they also bless us from their heart.


All the blessings the blessings that


come from the thing to charm. You never


can tell which one the angel will use to


prosper you all the way


just they they live like that. told you


about that lady. I I I said no no no


take as many baby milk. Her faith could


not allow her take as many as she could


take. I paid for everything. That's why


you must you must have you must have


feast for greatness. Why say collect the


whole


I said take as many as you want. Mama


take the lady take


small portion one two three four year


faith rich.


That's why you need pastors like us.


So that if you say no it's too much but


I say take as much then I will not guide


you not that you not take you not take


one that life punishes timidity


oh


[Music]


say he that gives to the poor lended to


me ah say now me give to they take all


those the Bible is very silent on giving


they read your upside down not on any


giving anything don't allow the abuse of


anything affect and to know that the


devil is against giving is why every


time you hear giving your heart is


failing you every time you also give it


to a that one I pay pass when you give


it to a pastor say ah they want they


want to take the last thing that we have


the last that you have it did prosper


you on the way but the last one I saw in


devotional the other day say the woman's


giving was the beginning of approvation.


Approvation was ending.


It was in your devotional. I didn't read


it some days back. Generosity. Be


generous. Be generous.


Be generous. Let it be a lifestyle. I'm


not tell you you're trying to buy. We're


not buying anything. We're not buying


miracle from God. God forbid. We are not


buying. We are not your money perish


with you if that's your mindset.


However, that thing is God's word. That


is your submission to God's word because


you know to be a good person. You know


to help people. So help people when it's


within your power and when is also not


within your power but you have


instruction from the Lord. That one


sometimes is the one that we fear most.


That one of sacrifice that is beyond


what you Yes.


But God will, if it was God that moved


you like that, let it go.


Live a life of sacrifice.


Hebrews chapter 13. See another thing I


call sacrifice.


Hebrews 13:15-16.


By him. Therefore, let us offer the


sacrifice of praise to God continually.


That is the fruit of our lives giving


thanks. Live a sacrif. So is this in


your everyday life of thanksgiving


devotion and worship of God giving


thanks everyday thanksgiving is because


when people can't thank God they can


only complain and m in everything give


thanks that sacrifice Lord I thank you I


thank you I may not see everything that


I am trusting and believing for but I


believe you trust you follow you be


thankful be anxious for nothing


be thankful for the sins of your life be


thankful for the days to come thankful


for the days that have passed


and live a life of thanksgiving.


Unseen


influences and powers follow you like


that. Hallelujah.


Amen.


Is not superstition. Oh,


those things you see where was the angel


standing between heaven and earth. That


1 Chronicles 21 between the boundary.


Was it the boundary line


now? So


there are things that produces engages


other worldly creatures, other worldly


appearances. You need it s you needed ma


you need


there are some of you you delayed many


things because God was just trying to


prove you.


That's why get used to those kind of


Bible verses. Don't be saying why would


God want to prove me? I a child. Don't


come and change Bible for us. God used


to prove people. If you really are


something, why can't you now do it?


So now you have revealed that you are


not it. God wants your conduct to reveal


to you that you are not what you said.


So become what you said.


I love you. I love you. Small issue. Now


you cannot love God again. You say you


love God. So you don't love him. You


love things. Now you have seen it to


repent and love him properly. Every day


those things are before you.


A life of sacrifice and submission to


God. The unclean spirit comes and see


that no this one is surrender to God.


It's in submission to to God. It's in


submission to God. It's in submission to


God. I submit to God. I live for what


God is about.


Amen. Amen.


I reverence God.


That's submission. Oh.


Hebrews 13:2. So be be hospitable. Say


some have entertained angels. Be not


forgetful to entertain strangers for


thereby some have entertained angels


unaware. Entertained. They have


entertained angels. They have host


angels unaware. And it takes you back to


the Abraham story. Those angels would


have passed by Genesis 18. Had Abraham


not being a man of a person of


submission unto God. He ran and called


them say why not lodge in my house.


He run to go and meet his wife kill this


for them


engagement. Shall I hide what I want to


do from Abra


Bible? You go to read your own withlesia


upside down.


It is the anything you see Satan is


contending against you know that is


important. Anything that there's


conflict over once you say it know


that's also another area unseen


influences I've told you I said it la


last year why when we talk about giving


something hits the air people start


getting angry


in the shopping mall you are buying


things you are spending money why you


know you even are looking for more money


to buy but once you hear give


to that degree they are always


influences that's how much Satan still


has hold on you that cuz now when we


hear giving we say I can't wait to give


again. I can't wait to add again. I


can't wait.


This is one secret that has brought


multiplication


my way


in three years. The kind of


multiplication I've always been this


kind of person since the Lord taught me


financial stewardship.


You have never had a word of knowledge


for who to give money. The way I knew


Reverend Williams phone number was it


was by word of know. I I had the number


still on my phone but as I was waking up


one 08


live for


live fors live for live for live for


leave for


don't live onto yourself.


live for the Lord and onto others. That


life of submission to God entertains


angels.


Live a life of submission. I submit to


God. I submit to God.


I submit to God.


Learning something?


Yes, sir.


I submit to God.


I submit to God.


A life of submission and surrender. I


surrender to you, oh Lord. I surrender.


I live in submission to I fear you. I do


your will, oh Lord.


I do your will, oh Lord.


I do your will, oh Lord. Hallelujah.


You can't serve God and serve mmon. So I


serve God. Matthew 6:24.


Life of submission. This is where we


talk about attitudinal cooperation. It's


in submission to God though. You now


notice you are having orchestrated


actions because it's not about moment.


It's different. They are different every


day. So I can't just leave for a moment.


Then you know it seem like how could you


just know to do it like this? How did


you just now? So it be because your life


is in submission to God. You are being


guided. He's guiding you with his eye


because he's the one leading you by


himself. Lest you is your keeper.


Oh, he's your keeper. I submit to God's


leading. I submit to God's protection. I


submit not for a moment all the days of


my life. I submit that Psalm 121 say he


shall keep thee. The Hebrew word s to


watch to guard to preserve. It's the


same word in Psalm 25:20.


Oh God my soul, deliver me. Let me not


be put to shame for I take refuge in


you.


Several times God promises people and


said to them, I am I am with you and


will keep you wherever you go.


Submit to that. I submit to that


preservation. I submit to the leading of


God. I submit. I submit to his


protection. I submit. Has the Lord whom


you trusted been able to deliver you? Oh


king lively forever. He sent his angel


and shut the mouth. Even Nebuchadnezzar


were expecting the deliverance because


now wicked people say he must kill him.


He must kill him. But that devotion and


they shut the mouth of the lions and


there was no harm.


I submit to God's leading. I submit to


God's protection. I submit.


I submit. I submit to God's leading.


It is not in man to direct himself.


Jeremiah 10:23,


I submit.


I know that the way of man is not in


himself. There's not a man that walketh


to direct his step. Is God that is


directing my steps. I'm not I So I avoid


haste. I avoid haste. Don't always be in


a hurry rushing. No, no, no, no, no, no,


no, no, no. I do what I'm I do as I'm


instructed. I go where I'm told.


I'm led by the spirit of God.


I'm led by the spirit of God.


I'm led by the spirit of God.


I submit.


And number four,


we're not going to touch this for long


at all. Honor for the anointed, which is


the place of spiritual gifts and


authority.


And and this one is one that is done on


your behalf through the gifts of God.


This one is not your father and your


mother. This is the gift of a pastor,


the gift of a leader over you


whose hand is stretched over you.


The place of spiritual authority or the


place of ministry gift.


Place of ministry gift. Exodus 17 8-13.


Moses said, "I will be up the mountain


again." Remember the mountain motive.


I'll be up on the mountain. You will be


down fighting whose hands is up as the


hand. I notice Aon and H went to hold


the hand. Keep the man of God hand up.


Keep it up.


See, see, see see




see see see see see see see see see see
see see see see see see see see see see


deep deep deep deep things full a keep


the even the weak hand of the anointed


can bring safety can bring promotion


they kept the hand off not say hand the


tie even the blind a see again can still


say you have a child


all our prayer don't join anybody to be


talking against pastors


don't join anybody don't join anybody If


you have an issue with somebody, tell


him to his face. Don't be a coward. You


have issues, tell the face. That's how


we resolve issue.


Deal with issues face to face.


Barak said


Deborah,


I like that because it's a woman. Cuz


you because we want to make everything


about as if the anointing is a is a is a


male. The anointing is a male thing.


Neither male nor female. Ministry gift


does not consist in gender or marital


status.


You know it was Anna A


that blessed Jesus in the temple.


So that you have issue with women. Have


issue with women. Leave women alone.


Have doctrines of devils.


Fight women leave women ministry gift


does not consist in gender.


No no no


hand are stretched out. What did Deborah


go and do in the battle? Nothing. She


was just in the battle. You are the one


that think is nothing. Her presence is


the that's what that's what Barak was


after. He said how can I go if you will


not fight? You will follow. You will


follow. You will follow. You will


follow. So he just needed her. Then


Deborah took up her song and said, "The


stars fought for us in their courses.


Ceer was discomed.


It's the same thing. The sword of the


Lord and the sword of Gideon is by the


anointed. There's favor with God and


there's favor with man.


Elisha said to the woman, "Stand by the


door." The woman said, "Nay, it the


woman had no faith. That faith had


finished in that point because she had


passed the age. But all the orchestrated


action that she did not know because


there was something she had done before


that moment that had


said the woman does not have a child. A


be


the man said name not so my lord."


That's second chapter 4.


say according to the time of life you


shall


Elisha that gave her that child. That's


why when the child died, she going to


return it to Elisha.


She knew. Now look at that text. Neon


say the king of Israel when they sent


the king of sent letter say heal my my


servant. He say this man is looking for


war. Immediately the letter reach


Elisha's hand. Elisha said let him come.


He didn't say he will know there is a


god. You always like saying there's a


god in Israel and I lie. That's not the


text. So let him come. He will know that


there is a prophet in Israel.


He will know that there is a prophet. He


say let him come when he came.


That's in second kings chapter uh 5


story. Now second chapter 5. Yeah.


Second chapter 5 from verse 10. You see


the whole when non finally came he told


the servant to tell


neon see the patterns he did not even


meet n man say go d deep yourself seven


times


notice when the servant of the neon was


not he said if the man go to do


something hard would you not have done


it


so so he hacken to what the man of god


have said that's how not the sixth or


the seventh one and he was free from


that leprosy.


Hallelujah.


Elijah said, "According


to my word,


those who have the gift of the anointed


that have blessed and spoken over them


know this one and don't joke with it.


The place of because that's how


promotion, favor is released towards


you."


Every other one is do it yourself. The


fifth one that I mention is the one that


God is using people that are stronger


than you to lift you up


to ensure that the stars over your head


are being guided and right.


It matters though.


And the woman cried to Elisha.


Elisha say Elisha is not a dep is not a


revenue collector. It's not a dep but he


say go into your house shut what do you


have said I have this oil say when you


get to your house shut your door


instruction that the anointed gave shut


the door and pour that oil and it


happened according to until there was no


more vessel then there was no more oil


said go when she came by said go and


sell it the man of God multiplied matter


the same way bread was multiplied that's


workings of miracle in Elisha's life he


used his working a miracle for her


since I don't have money but what you


get for your house be multiplying


you open oil business without


the same way the


uh Samson took the jawbone he turn to bo


who is drinking


drinking from the the ass of that


jawbone after defeating the enemy


it matter which hands are up. There's


favor with God and there's favor with


man.


God said to Miriam where they say


there's no difference. God said I will


now show you the difference between


Moses and the rest. If there be a


prophet among you, I speak to them by


vision. But for Moses, I speak to him


mouth to mouth


and say, "Wherefore you were not


afraid."


That's God showing the difference. I


don't see there's any difference between


anointed because all of us are all men


of God. Shut your Yo.


That's not true. There's a difference.


Are we not all the anointed? Yes, Israel


is the anointed, but they still the


anointed.


And those who don't recognize that


difference, they will go as far as their


own strength can carry them until the


day where they need a strength greater


than.


They were all baptized into Moses in the


clouds.


Now Moses, Moses, God needed a man. You


always say God a man. God needed a man


and he found Moses and he empowered and


he sent him by the hand of the angel to


be a deliverer. I say let the angels of


my anointing. When you see people pray


that kind of prayer is because God gives


angels to the people he sent. Because


once you on assignment, you must have


the protocol of being under assignment.


And every minister of God is sent with


angelic forces for the delivery of the


mandate on his life.


Amen.


I love that phrase in the bed. Dr. And


the wife said that S is to travel. Your


angels have not failed to guarantee


results. And he added and they are still


guarantee result. Wise man. I said that


this guy


no quick come back. And they are still


no one standeth with me but your prince


M. That's spiritual things. So the angel


is sent on assignment.


That's Daniel. at the book of Daniel.


So ages on assignment on different


matters or


hallelujah. So this is no longer maybe


you are not using your own but the man


of God is using his own for you.


Once the Lord told me have the protocol


of someone who have been sent by the


most excellency


and that has changed my my posture with


people say have the


the protocol of someone who has been


sent by the most high and the most


excellency


his angels will work for you. Abraham


told Eleazar the angel of the Lord will


prosper thy way.


No, not come here say not conceive the


woman.


That's in the literal is let the angel


follow you as if the angel belongs to


him. The angel is the Lord. All angels


belong to Lord but it's looking like


he's the one that


the man was playing praying for one


pastor and he said I give you an angel


like that now you know you don't see


life.


Reverend Mosba


laid hands on that Lawrence oil and said


to him, "Let


your name say


like that." That's why one name is the


other one's name.


Life is paro.


We may come out together. Life is paro


copper. He said, "What do I have? What


do I have with me?" He brought out


everything he has.


Let me give this thing.


Bless be the Lord God. And he mentioned


that you know man is pray like that


swear for you. That one better swearing


your better. is blessed be he mentioned


his father's name who has taught his


children


to be like this to be generous as the


boy gave the gift


just go get after that moment started


following my spiritual father you follow


because when you see everything just


change say sir I follow you sir


that's a miracle man that's a man of


stature in the likes of the Dr.


say give me the gun shot say shoot it


will not work


remove the whole witchcraft from his


village the things that that man's


testimonies are mindblowing it looks


like he's film trick just like we all


know the same know the me I know the


difference


I know the difference I know the


difference I don't say anything I don't


say anything I don't say anything


like this twitch anything I don't care I


just mind my business they go put myself


in trouble


I mind my business oh


there are some people especially when


they in that element there's that dread


all the same when the man of God face


switch the


[Music]


Man of God say auntie my God make it an


everyday occurrences h


so no wonder the Lord said every month


keep sending that millions that's what


provoked that kind of statement I can


tell you what provoke it it's not luck


that's why the angel of the lord said do


it like this there are things


I mean I'm saying many things but I will


not go into more details. There are


things that provoke some orances because


all blessings come from a place. All


blessings come from a place. That's why


some people share tears.


That's why some things you remember ah


the encounters you have had you speak


because everybody speaks from a depth.


Say from today watch all those from


today words. this moment this you know


there's blessing they enter


you know when this one ah this one this


one this one this one is it's like


somebody's reading a script it's a


scroll it's heaven's scroll now from


today


you those kind of words you as you you


just amen amen that's all that's all


don't do anything you don't need your


faith that word don't need your faith


just amen amen amen and be conscious of


it that's all because the word will


fight your battles


Hallelujah.


So be careful.


The angel of the Lord appeared to Paul


in Acts 27 say no life shall be lost. He


said the angel of the Lord whose I am


who the angel of the Lord whom I serve.


Same angel appeared to Philip. See see


you can't remove the ministry of angel.


say who made him a deliverer through the


hand. That's that acts chapter 7 when


acts 7:35 that's how God sent Moses


through the hand of the angel


God said to him I will be with you when


God sends you and tells you I will be


with you it means he has given angels to


you the same thing he said to Moses


Exodus 3:12 I will be with you


that's the backup


amen


that's the backup Then there are some


men of God that don't only just have


angels. They now have cherub beams and


or seraphim dependaphim is the another


cultural way of putting the same thing.


Cherob beams burning ones. Those hybrid


creatures that guard sac place spiritual


body guard for sacred place.


That's why you begin to repent when you


are ascending up into heaven for


encounters. You begin to say forgive me


Lord forgive me. Have you not seen


people cry? That cry is because you the


angel will not forgive you. Oh, he will


dagger you. You will be repenting. Oh


Lord, please, please, I'm sorry. You


better not be sorry. Oh, because you are


about to enter holy place.


Isaiah say, "Woe is me. I'm a man of


unclean lips." Sir, are you unclean


lips? You a prophet of God. This I'm


undone.


Those are experiences.


And


the serpent was one of such a


the covering cherub a seraph burning


one. That's why it's called a serpent.


Hallelujah. They stand guard between


heaven and earth. Those are treble beam


function. So they guard sacra place.


They they are the reason there is no


contamination when we go into the


unseen. So they they protect against


contamination in unseen practices. So


high ranking and stature


than all the rest because of the


function that they have. Amen. And those


angels are for you.


Hallelujah.


Whether Satan comes as a deceiver or


comes as a raving lion with


discouragement or as a dragon to destroy


you, you shall slay,


you shall cast out, you shall deal with,


you shall resist.


Hallelujah.


So no.


Amen.


No.


Amen.


Hallelujah.


If I found favor in thy sight there


favor with God and man


say I found favor with God also find


favor with men because some things are


in the hands of men. It must be Peter


that preached to the gentile nation.


Jesus will have it no other way because


there are some things don't get to that


point in your life where you say it's


not it's byasa


say wherefore you were not afraid even


when Moses was begging that means God


was teaching a lesson when Moses was


begging say if it was her father will


she not still be kept outside let her


stay outside till the next day she was


still lepros


because you can't you can't love more


than me sir there's something I'm trying


to communicate to all Israel


The other time it was grand that opened


up to show difference


and it was God that was speaking for


Moses. Say we are all we are not all the


same sir. We are not all the same sir.


We are not all the same sir. People are


all the same. You without no life of


devotion. No life of prayer. No life of


knowing God's word. No hard work in the


things of the no labor in the grace of


God. Say you are the same with somebody


that is laboring the grace of God. Don't


be so they do something sir.


Amen. Amen.


All of them by faith


by faith


in the place of prayer. Soak yourself


you'll be wise


for my lord the king is as wise as the


angel of the lord. That's what they said


about David. David said I meditate on


thy lord. That's see the praise of


David. How did David become like that?


David became said, "For my lord is as


wise as an angel of the Lord." It was


not, it was not hype. David was a wise


man.


It's not Joab was just hyping him. No,


it is truth.


For by wisdom a man's face will shine.


Hallelujah.


Glory be to God.


So by faith in the place of prayer,


unseen influences,


unseen powers activated


for your good.


Amen.


Amen.


So I beg you, don't be ignorant from


today about the ministry


of angels. Don't be ignorant about


unseen forces.


Don't be


Don't be. Oh, hallelujah.


Don't be. Don't be.


You know, spirit can control chances.


John 11:50-51.


Kyifas was the high priest. Look at that


story. He said he spoke. John 11


John 11:50.


And this spake he not of himself but


being high priest that year he


prophesied that Jesus should die. What


did he say? Verse 50.


Cifas bring the high priest the same


year. Said you know nothing at all. Nor


consider that it is expedient for us


that one man should die for the people


and that the whole nation perish not.


For the in his mind one man should die


so that let Rome not come against us.


So, so let one man die instead of Rome


now says we have caused a revolution.


Who is this person that is gathering


people here? So let's just kill Jesus


said but look at how he sounds so so


theological.


Now that statement see the next verse.


And this spake he not of himself. The


new king James say not of his own


authority. He did not say it by his own


authority. There are things people say


just like that first 22 say I will now


go and be a lion in the mouth of all all


the prophet unanimous decision. They


were all saying the same thing. But it


was influence. If we did not have


background information, we would not


have known.


It's the same thing second kings uh


where he said I will go. It says I will


send a blast and a rumor and they will


return the same way they came. Senator


story that blast there last year. I read


it for you. It's a spirit. That word


blast is a spirit.


It's a is a spirit. That word blast. We


send a blast. That word there is the


word whack. I will send a spirit is


unfortunate that say a blast


is the spirit that say go back go back


go back go back go back go back


go back go back go back go back


hallelujah the same way Peter spoke by


the spirit of God and also spoke by the


devil people speak under influences


Jesus say in that moment do not preate


what you will say it shall be given to


you


hallelujah Ah,


there are spirits that sit on people's


tongle.


Just like Acts chapter 2, when the day


of Pentecost was fully come,


that's why I'm in submission to God. I'm


able to say the right things at the


right time. Orchestrated actions


and the place of honor for the anointed.


I know to run with Amen. Amen, sir. Some


people carelessly say, "Yeah, yeah, sir.


That say I'm on my knees sir


you how you see a man of God is how you


receive how you see a man of God


how you see a man of God how you see a


man of God


all those things matter


all those things matter what do you do


are you praying for your pastor do you


give to your pastor say no but I honor


you a liar you don't you don't honor is


seeing actions You can't have you don't


have any action of honor. You say you


honor somebody. Is this wish? It's not


wish. They used to honor somebody. Honor


is in actions. Your actions show if you


love and honor somebody. There are


people one full year they know nothing


good they will do for their pastors.


Nothing. One full year say I not have.


How can you not? Which have which so


poverty serious? Even in the deep


poverty they gave you one full year. Why


not buy book?


because you did not think it mattered


because what does this person need the


money for? It's not about needing it.


Don't be the greatest setup in your life


is where God people go your way that


don't need what you have. It's now a


sign and a judgment against you. Will


you do God's word or will you not do


God's word say I don't feel I don't feel


I don't feel I don't feel because you


are not a good person. The good people


don't need all those signs. They will do


God's word in season because it's not


every it's not always cuz some people do


those things to brag. Now God has you


cannot you cannot say we help men of God


it could not come to pass if not for us


they will be finished


how much the person have stealing his


two or 5 million


that's the person that is bragging so no


no no no the anointed releases favor and


promotion


honor and promotion


the place of ministry gift hallelujah


You will listen to the wisdom that they


give you. You will follow the


instruction that they will give you. You


will you will submit your head for


impartation. You will you will take


words. You will take hands.


You will take those declarations.


All you need to do is honor. Amen to


what they have said. Amen. War good


warfare.


For some of them that requires you to


wear a good warfare for others. Amen.


Amen. For others go and sleep and you


will know by the declaration


that this one is just go and sleep. You


don't need to do anything for this other


one. You know to


Hallelujah.


I was thinking about something two days


ago. Yes. It's Sunday.


So three days ago like that today makes


it Sunday. So three days ago I was


thinking about something and I I like


how come I'm not doing. So I said ah


anniversary will be a good time and the


Lord heard it


and I said Lord help me so that I will


be able to do this for this pastor


continuously from that hence forth all


the days of my life I'm able to continue


sending something like this and the Lord


was pleased


think of things don't matter.


The fact that I got that divine


response,


you will see there are like I told you


angels there are not every human being


you are seeing is a human being. Oh,


not every human being is a human being.


know


I shared with you the story of that man


by the boss park


and I it was against my I don't give


people money that beg on the road and


all those people that are around I in


fact but that's when you are led by the


foot of God I shared that on Friday for


those of you that attend prayer meeting


so you you are looking lost as I give


cuz I even as I saw him I was even


saying my tell these beggy beggy people


I didn't doesn't know how come


some angels on our way. I could not find


him and I asked they said there's nobody


like that. There's no I describe it.


There's nobody like that begging this


park.


Continue to be


like this. That's what the man said to


me in response. Continue to be like this


all the days of your life. There are


things you hear. It didn't dawn on me at


first.


Continue to be like this all the days of


your life. S I have to be like that's


how


angel of Lord that fed me all my


lifelong that redeemed me from all evil.


I'm still like that's how


I don't know if you are getting it.


Being wise and strong


be conscious angels can come say this do


this be conscious of that.


Be conscious of that. There are some


persons that they have judged themselves


because the only people they have made


up their mind that they will give to


people. When you say give to the poor is


many times that arrogancy that is only


the poor you will give to but you not


give to your pastor has also hindered


them because wickedness is no longer out


of and give to the poor carame.


The left hand must and arms giving. You


don't let the left hand see what the


right hand is giving. It's only arms


giving that you do in secret.


I'm giving you but you now on camera put


it on YouTube. What is that one? If you


want to help people, help people.


Help people. Help people. Leave camera


at home. Help people. Hallelujah.


But don't short change it for honor for


the anointed.


The boy you have with you always. Jesus


said for a s for this woman. Imagine


their arrogance say what minute this


waste


every person around you that you discuss


with and say I want to do something good


for my man of God and they tell you is


it not a waste mark them these are


people assigned against your life


mark them oh mark them


what this waste is not waste if it was


you I give it to not be waste I've never


seen anybody that was giving something


to the


But once it's somebody else say it's not


too much. It was not too much when you


were buying medicine of that amount.


So not too much. Some people are very


ungrateful. I shared with you a story. I


did not know this as as a teenager. I


prayed for one of my members. Then


the Lord said is now I'm understand that


story of Moses that if it was her father


would she not still be outside? Lord


said to me I I didn't know that. It even


it didn't even make any sense to me.


Then Lord said I told her say she could


not give you port you tricked young boys


18 year old boys trekking which younger


one 16 people under my leadership are


teenagers our teenage president came to


pray the person got up healed he said


the Lord said I told her I told that


woman is that same woman that said was


see our children waste


I told her she knew to give you


something I didn't even know I started


time I didn't even know all those kind


of things I said I just thought because


God was giving me it was prophetic


revelation I was having secret


conversation is now I don't understand


how can she see hardening her heart like


that


will return back


some people is their wickedness that is


pursuing them even God cannot help them


again because now this is the part I was


talking about submission is now God is


resisting them God resists the proud.


So you not not only do you have Satan


against you, God is now also woe to that


man that God is now against.


God resists the proud and gives grace to


the humble. The proud is in resistance


to God. Don't be like that, sir. Don't


be like that, sir. Care about other


people's issue.


Amen.


Me, I'm just starting in supernatural


workings. God gave me a timeline


for something.


So when I'm 40, when I'm 45,


you will know you have met a man of God.


These ones are dressy as as terrible as


these ones are.


And all because I could not sleep that


the father took that baby in the carton


to go and bury. I sat at I can still


remember that room we


go there for master's retreat. Now


I sat there on the ground.


No response when you say I forgive God.


No response. First day, second day. But


as I was about to leave, here comes the


divine response.


Think you think people just fail from


God looks at our labor. Don't be fooled


by all of those things. So, and not


everybody have the same. There's such a


thing as


everything join


by faith. Imagine you live with all. And


thank God we can live with all. I'm a


man of faith. I'm a man of prayer.


I'm a man of the word. I'm a man of


submission. I'm a man that honors the


anointed. Say that woman said, I


perceive that this is a holy man of God.


The ability to discern times and seasons


and men. I per that a man of God. Let us


build him a place here.


Amen.


Another


one I did just I said no I will not


allow this man of God to be dishonored.


No I cannot I cannot never be around me


that I see that somebody I honor is


dishonored. I will cover that all those


things then the angel of the Lord heard


that angel of used to hear that angel


used to see. Watch out for those


moments.


Watch out for those moments and


especially those ones that you are led


by the spirit of God


say you don't understand me I will


understand though because there is


giving then there is sacrificial giving


the one that mean I've done that one


countless times


because I always use money I always put


money to work for me so money don't stay


in my hand because I'm a young man why


am I keeping money in the bank to prove


a point or what and it's now you should


Hear the yoke in your youth. Don't want


to be old and now be hling. It's the


beach they used to go when you are old


and rest. Relax. Not don't used to raise


children when you are about to die.


That's common sense. So all my money has


use.


So I I'm not If you think I don't know


what to do, I know what to do with


money.


But


my ears are open. be able to hear God.


All of you that God have set up like


that will tell you go and pray, go and


visit this person, call this person, you


will say no. Go they argue with God, go


they resist God. Stop all those things.


Call immediately


said to that brother that got delivered


from a multinational issue would have


come out in the papers. Maybe CNA would


have carried it because all of you here


use his product. use the product of that


multinational company.


You you use the product. There's no week


you don't use that product.


And I said to him, I said maybe it's for


this reason that you reconnected with me


again after many years and you said the


Lord laid it in your heart cuz one day I


saw something that changes the front and


the back.


You know, you know


many things don't change the front. Many


things change the back but the front and


the back changed. You will know that


this is alert. What is this? The alert


is it's alert is multiplicative. So it


changed front and back. I said to him I


said maybe it is for this reason that


God ste your heart towards me again.


remember me for many years after years


because now it was by the strength of


the anointed


because all the CCTV camera could not


pick it but one eye of the prophet I


said it's that person that framed you up


you will be exposed because as I was


praying I saw it


I said give me three days


three days. Oh, and the scandal of


billions was resolved.


So I besought the Lord and he was


intreated because I have more strength


than him. He has been praying but my own


prayer has more weight. That's why I say


if it was Elijah, if it was all matter,


you will grow and see that those things


matter. You grow and see those things


matter. It matters. It matters. It


matters.


No more still birth. That lady is still


giving birth today. Before it was still


birth. No more still birth.


The fact that Jesus could say it what


the disciples did and did not work but


Jesus said it and it works. So what one


anointed canointed can do it as long as


the power of God as long as is not


somebody resisting the power of God. The


power of God can do it. That's why we


need to grow more in the power of God.


Hallelujah.


Pastor Sam shared with me a story this


week before. Stand on your feet. Shared


with me a story this week of when they


were preaching somewhere and he told


somebody that gives people power that I


will spoil. I can spoil everything that


you are doing. And the man say sorry


don't do spoil it. I will listen to your


evangelism message. The story sweet me


anything that have power used to sweet


me. I told him is because you have


stature now. The man looked if he if he


were bluffing he would have he would


have attacked you. He saw it that you


really have the power to stop what he's


doing.


There are influences.


You must know that this fight you are


fighting your friend and not come from


God. Withdraw


I don't every relationship that is


assigned to me stays with me all the


days of my life.


If the relationship mistakenly is


strained, it will get that relationship


back.


Yes. So there's somebody the Lord has


been laying back in my house. He's a


pastor. I've helped him before. Uh


taught him some things. I said, "No, he


will connect with me." Lord say he will


connect with me. I say, "Let him connect


with me." Put I put it put it back to


the Lord. Lord, this is with will I


know.


Let him reconnect with me. The Lord said


he will reconnect with me. Okay, good.


Glory be to God. I don't do anything


wrong. I didn't like what he was


standing for and speaking against the


anointed that I cared about. So can't


mingle like that.


I don't want the thing that is working


my life to stop working.


The angel will not know that I did not


talk. I did not join. It's just that I


was there. Let's see. I fre all of us in


the way.


It was only you sir. I did not follow


you. These angels when his judgment is


blind


where the lawyers here know they t the


eye once the angels are doing judgment.


I not


say I not I not dre I not dread I not


dread you must know how to switch


one I connected again has preached for


me before we connected again since the


year last year called me called me this


year we're talking very well lovely man


of God glory be to god that means that


relationship was really divine okay


because whatsoever is mine is never lost


those prayers we have prayed.


When you now make prayer a prayer point,


I pray that prayer every day for five


years. If I ever lack strength, may I


never lack the strength to pray.


No, I can lack anybody strength. Not the


one that say no. I'm not in the mood.


I'm in the mood.


Hey, I'm in the mood.


My life depends on it. Look at how many


lives have changed because God said be


deliberate about blessing the people


and start speaking was in the last three


years. See how many testimonies we have


had.


It's not the same me since is the issue


was because


I expected that people should have sense


to know to take but now some things is


not just I believe it pastor came ready


for you that pastor are not ready to


bless their members I've been blessing


people I do that but now there's more


intentionality that's why some some some


foolish people that don't know me that


just joined ministry recently can now be


thinking that maybe I'm materialistic me


I'm helping you How how much do you


have? How much can you I I I can boast.


I will never need it. I have enough


people. God have assigned too many


persons to me


that will not allow me. Money perish


with you.


This one they give me money. They start


give me big money. There are many people


see I can be pointing people here that


give me money regularly. The one that


can make you have attack


get need your money. Have orgasans.


That's how people


there are people here. There are people


far and wide if not go stone. Nobody go


stink


everything is always


that's why we didn't used to say all


these things before for I will not let


the devil win in my life


because I realized that it was fake. It


was it's unnecessary fear because the


Lord had to encourage me and say you're


not the one that deceived anybody. You


have not converted any man's silver or


gold.


I have never stolen anybody money in my


life. I have never manipulated the


anointing once and there is no sign and


wonder in that four gospel book of arts


that I have not seen. I have walked away


from Ghana. The first dead person I


raised back to life was a politician's


daughter. That money at that time if you


put it now can buy four Range Rover.


Have you seen money? You think you think


money that called me? All the struggles,


issues I had with my parents to do


ministry. You think it was money?


Money is the last thing on my mind.


Money is not what called me to the


ministry. Is to serve God. I care about


the purposes of God.


Amen.


Amen.


Landing church. They now pray for


prosperity. Now you know prosper not


prosper. Take the prayer and stop doing


over sabi.


Where is the teaching? Did we manipulate


anything? It's still the same sound


doctrine.


Don't be wise. These are limiting


beliefs that have limited people. You


now use doctrine to limit yourself.


But the hand of this prophet is lifted


over you.


Keep going up.


[Music]


Keep going up.


Keep increasing.


Keep doing well.


Keep doing well.


Keep doing well.


Let the forces of life favor you.


[Applause]


Let your days continually be in favor


and in increase.


Abide


in safety


for you have the honor of kings.


Be continually favored.


Amen.


In the name of Jesus.


Hallelujah.


[Music]


Practice this message


by faith.


Prayer.


Soak yourself in God's word.


Expect angels to bump on you.


Expect it.


Because they are going to make


themselves known to you more this week,


this month you


be able to open your eye as you hear


footstep. Open your eye.


Yesterday I was hearing footstep. I


said, "Have they come back from the


home?" So I checked out. So then I


retired upstairs.


Since I did not see any footstep, I said


this footstep that I was checking I went


upstairs to inquire of the Lord.


What what minute this foot say is the


angels. They are here


and I was ministered to. Open your eyes.


Open the eyes of your spirit. See,


see the forces that go with you.


Angels can become atmospheres for you.


Bible say there's just something about


you, sir.


There's just something about you, sir.


The angel of the Lord became the


atmosphere for you. A pillar of fire,


pillar of cloud.


Favor him. Favor him.


A spirit told him.


Amen.


A spirit told him.


He say I will be a lying spirit in the


mouth.


A spirit is say say do it for her. Do it


for her.


[Applause]


Add to the money. Add to the money. Add


to the money. Add to the money.


Angels are negotiating for me.


Doing well, doing well, doing well.


Me, I can tell you some every member


here is my divine project. But there are


some members here that are my divine


project. Me, I can I can swear, let's


bet if they will not do well in life. I


have raised them up. They can't go down.


They can't. They are by reason


of the anointed. their own they can't


even if let all the rock


let everybody gather again they will


still go up and that's the same


disposition I have towards all members


but people the different past people


just the same way how come you were not


afraid people different past people


that's why you know how you enjoy


yourself to the anointed that's why God


teaches and that's why one of the things


God put in your heart is love for the


anointed


male and female I always tell it's not


only female People mostly think is


females that love their pastor. No,


females they learn.


Males love their pastors too.


It's not female. That's why people


think, "Oh, is it not lead to


perversion?" No, not everything has to


lead that way. Males love their pastors


too. Amen.


God is the one that put that love


because that's where you can receive


is in that reception


so that words can see you need strength.


Oh.


Because my enemy was too strong, God


delivered me many times. How God used to


deliver you from those kind of enemies


that are too strong, we add power to it.


Some of you here, your parents would


have died since now had we not picked


it.


There are many I I called


tell. There are many of you here I


called. I say call


say that's the anointed.


Don't joke with the place of the


anointed.


So they prospered by the prophesying of


he


go up and don't come down


is the charge to you.


This brother have I g promotion is not


in your frontier. We say he's promoted


his office there. They will be promoting


him


is and this time again you have sense.


Yes. And this time because I told you


what to do. I already told you what to


do. Will he promote you again? Say is he


only is him. Is him is him. Is him. Bend


the knee for the one the king wants to


honor. Is him. It's him. Is him. Life is


by power. Is him. Is him. It's him. Is


him. Is him. Is him. Is him. Is him. Is


him. Keep going up.


Keep going.


The Lord takes my path with them that


all those that hate you, they will see


it their desire. That's why you don't


worry yourself about that. Just vote


road clear.


Keep doing well.


Keep making progress. You are blessed in


the name of Jesus.


[Music]


Be conscious that angels are with you.


Every day you wake up, what are the


angels doing for me today? Be conscious


that angels have gone ahead of you.


Some of you think you have been


conscious of the ministry of angel. No.


Multiply the way you have been conscious


of it before by a thousand. Now


be so conscious of the ministry of


angels worse than superstitious people


can be conscious of it. You will now


then you will see.


You see where that sister said it. I


said yes. He said I expect good. The way


I expect good


my angels they work hard though. Say for


us. I said go again. Go again. Go again.


Ah no


I will see good days.


Yes.


What the Lord said to me yesterday


because of that footsteps was that as


12:1 that's what they came to tell me


that sir from now henceforth


every time wars are spoken against you


it will be a word of blessing it will be


reversed that was the pronouncement


that's where that I had to go and do my


again of psalm 121 he said for the son


that's what the angel of the lord said


to me


For this, you know, I don't like


sounding like this so that you look like


I have visitations regular. I will say


it today. That's the angel said to me.


For the sun shall not smite you by day,


nor the moon by night.


For every word, every time people say no


better, it go better for you. Every time


people say is going down, it will go up.


Every that's what said to me. He said


from now hence forth


Every negative word is turning to a good


word for me is always turning


for the balance have all turned to


prophesiers of good. I say thank you


sir. Thank you sir.


Thank you sir.


Thank you sir. When they tell you better


thank you sir.


Some that brother I was praying for. I


saw it arome.


So theory


on that matter from


for


far away.


This is how we will be finished. No now.


No now.


Let the angels of God persecute. Make


their way slippery.


The president of the organization have


sent now said


all the evidences are there. So he


should be exempted. Yes. Everybody


unanimous decision. But there were


forces behind


beds were flying. A thousand shall not


come n thee.


Only with your eyes shall you see the


recompense of the wicked. You only with


your eyes you will see the recompense of


the wicked.


Since we are done with this series so we


can start closing early again cuz I


needed to stretch you so that you have


uncommon mentality


in this series. stretch you 12 so that


you every time you remember this


remember that this was series we stayed


long in church 12 yes it was for your


good your good so that you realize that


not everything comes the same way there


are moments you maximize I maximize


seasons I maximize moment I maximize it


I expect the extra


expecting


I expect


I expect it. I expect it. I expect it.


I'm the favored one.


Things go well for me.


So, I've let out all the secrets.


Live a life of sacrifice.


Live a life of sacrifice. Live a life of


sacrifice.


Live a life of sacrifice. The power of


God is already jumping on people here.


Angel will not look face. Oh, we jump on


you.


[Music]


See, see visitations. You can't make up.


These are angel visitations everywhere.


Now,


I've said your word, oh Lord.


I've said your word, oh Lord.


Honor the anointed.


When I was doubting who I am, the angel


of the Lord said to me that many years


ago, he said, "You are a minister of the


smoke and the fire.


For every time you remember, there will


be the operation of


throne guardians in your midst. For you


are a minister of the glory cloud


and God has graced you to be able to


command it at will.


So there are special seasons like that.


So everybody everybody is not the same.


Oh, everybody is not the same. Everybody


is not the same.


Expect many visitations this week.


We have been teaching on seeing and


knowing. But now the angel of the Lord


is here. That angel of the Lord Jesus


himself is opening your eyes and showing


you the supernatural beings assigned to


you all over this auditorium.


Is showing you from today. This is how


you win your goal like this.


[Music]


Yes. The angel of the Lord


that fed me all my lifelong


that redeemed me from all evil. Bless


the Lord.


Let his name be named


from tonight from today


all over this auditorium.


We turn the min the service over to the


ministry of angels.


Yeah.


[Music]


Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.


Shall keep you from evil. Shall deliver


you.


You shall not dash your foot.


Woo.


All over this auditorium. Come on, pray


in the Holy Ghost.


The Lord is in our midst touching


people, ministering to people.


The Lord is in our midst touching


people, ministering to people.


Take your own, take your own visitation.


This is a service of encounters with the


God kind.


Encounters with the God kind.


[Music]


Haha.


[Music]


Woohoo!


[Applause]


Holy


visitations


be conscious of it. There is an angel in


your household.


You wake up in the morning. Aha.


So things are working.


Policies are reversed.


Policies are mended to favor you.


And what was done for her? I said


nothing. Ah no let her be promoted.


Nothing was done for him. Ah let


something be done for him now. That


night the king could not sleep. The


angel of the Lord and I see the Lord


in judgment


saying this height will be from today.


This height will go from today. That's


what these appearances are for. other


worldly appearances in our midst


so that your visage will change so that


a man by wisdom maketh his face to


shine. Let your face shine now. Be wise


and strong with his power from today.


You know how to do what to do.


Operational wisdom. Operational wisdom.


Yeah. You know what to do. You know how


to do what to do. Yeah.


[Applause]


Woo.


Operational wisdom. Yeah. From today,


wise with the wisdom of God, for is as


wise as the angel of the Lord to


discern.


You know,


you will no longer act impulsively.


No, you acts are right. You do things


the right way. The name of Jesus.


Woo. You are doing things the right way


and you are having the right results


all over.


[Music]


For he is as wise as the angel of the


Lord.


You know the interpretation of a matter.


You know the interpretation of a matter


and you are also able to interpret the


the desires of people and you are paid


for it.


For the angel of the Lord has come now


to give you skill and wisdom.


[Music]


This wisdom is impartable and is given


to you now all over this auditorium.


[Applause]


[Music]


[Applause]


[Music]


So being flourished.


[Music]


[Music]


Yes. Sacrifice. Yeah. That's what God is


saying. Learn it. Learn it. That's what


God is saying. You are hearing


correctly. The things the Lord is saying


to you. Yeah.


Heed what you are told. Yeah. What you


are hearing in your spirit.


Yeah. What you are hearing in your


spirit, write it down. Act on it. What


you are hearing in your spirit, write it


down. That's the Lord speaking to you.


[Music]


Woo.


[Music]


Do her well.


Yeah.


[Applause]


Keep going up.


Keep going up.


[Applause]


[Music]


as far as your eye can see.


As far as your eye can see.


As far as your eye can see. So imagine


Dream with God. Imagine as fast your


eyes can see.


[Music]


Uh-huh.


[Music]


As far as your eye can see, there's


help.


The angel of the Lord have fed me all my


lifelong. God is enough.


God is able to do it. Trust God. The arm


of flesh will not win. Trust God.


God is able to take care of you.


God is able to


God is able to


God is able to


God is able to God is able to God is


able to God is able to


Ahu.


before the year end two times you will


win that thing you will be given that


either it's a scholarship or a grant I


see it the name of that's what that


angel came to give her the name of Jesus


be favored


prayers


on assignment here


Pray, pray, pray.