All this evening we open our hearts to


your spirit and we receive insight and


clarity again on the subject of unseen


forces. We will be wise and strong with


your power. We declare that in this


service again the things that ought to


be said will be said. The things that


ought to be done will be done to the


praise and glory of your name. We


declare that we live here full of


wisdom, full of


courage. We do your word, act on your


word, will think by the spirit. will


live by the spirit in the name of


Jesus.


Amen. God bless you. Have your seats.


Matthew chapter 28 and we'll begin from


that text of scripture. Matthew 28 and


verse 18. It says, "And Jesus came and


spake unto them, saying, All power is


given unto me in heaven and on earth."


All power. The word all power. All


power. All power.


Not some power, all power is given unto


me in heaven and on earth. All


power, all


power is given unto me on heaven and on


earth. All power. The word power there


is the Greek word esuzi. Our authority,


all authority is given unto me in heaven


and on earth. Then he says go ye


therefore he bequits that authority to


the church in our mission in our living


for purpose. So we can say all authority


in the natural and the supernatural are


given to Christ and he gives that to the


church. When you say all authority in


heaven, all authority in the unseen and


the sin world, all authority in the


supernatural and in the natural.


Hallelujah. All authority. Philippians


is before Colossians. Philippians


chapter


2. And we see that text of scripture.


Philippians chapter 2.


and verse


8. Are you


there? Philippians 2 and verse 8. And


being uh let's start from verse six. who


being in the form of God, taught it not


robbery to be equal with God, but made


himself of no reputation, took upon him


the form of a servant, and was made in


the likeness of men, and being found in


fashion as a man. Notice the word being


found in fashion as a


man. So that means God is not


man. However,


Jesus is man, God became a man. But


there so there's


man, there's God, there's angel, but God


became a man. So he says, so he's not


showing you that God naturally is man.


No. Or God normally has always been man.


No. God made man, made angels. God is


not a man.


That does not mean he can't appear as a


man appear as an angel which he has done


in Genesis to Micah used to appear as an


angel because he appears the way the


being he wants to relate with. However,


in Jesus Christ, he didn't just appear


as a man which he has appeared as a man


before in Genesis to Malachi but now he


comes as a man which is where we say God


became a man. Jesus humanity as a man


does not make him to be less


God. But that humanity offers him


limitation. Yeah. Because the physical


body of man is what make Jesus appear


less. But not in essence because he


sleeps, he gets tired, he gets hungry.


All those are not attributes of God. So


when we teach on the concept of God in


Christ, we always say that everything


you find in God is found in


Jesus. But not everything you find in


Jesus is found in God. You get that? Not


everything in his humanity, not


everything you find in Jesus humanity


can you find in God. That is a no no. It


appears paradoxical, but I've told you


before two truths can coexist. All


right? Everything you find in God can be


found in Jesus. But not everything you


find in Jesus's humanity, you find in


God. No,


no, no,


no. Philippians chapter


2. Who being in the form of God, gospel


songs shouldn't


trend. All right, just get so you get to


know that by the way because if if it's


about the lyrics, it should it will


never because soon they'll sing it in


club just


now. That's why people are already


making a mockery of things like that


because we must always know the nature


and the norm of


things. It is for what season not the


rain. But it's good at least you have


dable songs. All


right. Shouldn't the gospel doesn't


because imagine


singing all those pure doctrinal song.


He can't trade now. In fact, no. No. It


will


not


all say why don't you always like what


is popular talk for yourself I like it


or it just doesn't mean we should not


say the truth you can like something but


does not mean you should not say the


truth now it doesn't the gospel is for


all seasons it doesn't trend then you


say what's a new one


ah it's for all


times for all times and the fact that


unbelievers get to to hop hop in on


those things thanks to the devilish use


of Tik Tok by even among believers. So


get to hop in on those things. So even


out of the context of it is being used


for other things too. People are not


turning


back. So he says let this mind be you


which was also in Christ Jesus who been


in the form of God. So who normally is


God not robbery. So he didn't hold on to


his equality with God. had what? Thought


it not robbery. He did not hold on. He


didn't think it that hey I'm dropping


it. Old King James can be wonderful. Say


it not robbery. You want so did not


grasp cuz that's what a thief grab


something and run away. It didn't think


it a thing to grab a hold of but he let


it go. Taught it not robbery to be equal


with God but made himself of no


reputation. Made himself of no


reputation. took upon him the form of a


servant and was made in the likeness of


men. That shows you he normally is not


man but was made in the likeness of men


and being found in fashion as a man. So


again telling you that that is not his


normal fashion being found in fashion as


a man he humbled his beame obed to the


death even the death of the cross.


Wherefore God also has highly exalted


and has given him a name which is above


every name. That the name Jesus every


knee should bow of things in heaven,


things in the air, things under the


earth. Notice that in verse


10, do they bow?


Things in heaven, things in the earth,


things under the earth. Say, I have


authority. I have authority in all three


words. In all three words in heaven. In


heaven. In the earth. In the earth.


Under the earth. Under the earth. My


words matter. My words matter. In


heaven. In heaven. My words My words put


angels to good use. put angels. The


power of God works for me. The power of


God works in my favor. Works in my


favor. On the earth. on the earth.


The power of God is put to use. The


power of God is put to use. Things that


are against or contrary to my desire and


expectations are brought under.


in my living. I have authority in my


living.


That is in the preaching of the gospel.


And is in and in standing as God's man.


And in standing as God's man, I have


authority. I have authority. All right.


Under the earth, under the earth, I have


authority. I have authority. The devils


obey me. The devils obey me. The demons


obey me. The demons obey me. All the


powers of darkness. All the powers of


darkness. Obey my command. Obey my


command.


I have authority. I have authority. So


that's what we're talking about. So you


say, I have authority in heaven, on the


earth, under the earth. I have authority


and I have the power of God. So just


like I was saying the concept of God in


Christ which is the fullness of God. We


said everything found in God is found in


Jesus in his humanity but not everything


found in that humanity is found in


God. So Hebrews chapter 1 go to Hebrews


chapter 1. Hebrews chapter 1 verse 2 and


three it says or starting from verse


one. God who has sundry times and in


diverse manners spake in time pass unto


the fathers by the prophet had in these


last days spoken unto us by his son whom


he appointed hair of all things by whom


he made the walls the aons the periods


of time who been the brightness of his


glory on again understand that so that


means if God has any glory that is shown


forth it is Jesus he is the brightness


of the glory the reason why it is rated


60 watt 100 watt


is the brightness of the glory. The


forgence and the express image of his


person he uses the Greek word character


the express. So it's not a replica that


is God himself. Express image express


image. Then he uses the word of his


person which is the word hypotheasis


which means Jesus humanity substantiates


the unseen God. So you want to see the


substance of the unseen God. This is the


substance. This is how that unseen God


looks like, talk like, behave like. So


that's why we say everything you find in


God can be found in Jesus. That is the


express image of his person. He


substantiate God. That's why in our


theology, we make bold to say anything


Jesus does not do, God does not do. Are


you following? Because that is how God


looks like. So we finally saw God


himself behaving and we didn't see him


turning out lightning thunder instead.


We saw him differently. So we now know


where men have misused, abused his power


because we saw him in flesh and he acted


differently. That is God. So that is how


we know God. Amen.


So he says express image of his person.


Express image of his


person. So Jesus exhibited two sets of


attributes. Is that so? as


God and as


man. So Jesus in his humanity would be


divine and substantially deity. So Jesus


as God is deity and as man is divine.


Amen. So everything you find in Jesus


can be found in him. So Jesus in his


humanity exhibits the attributes of God


which he demonstrated in word and deed.


However, Jesus as a man also exhibited


human attributes such that he was


hungry, he was tired, he slept and


eventually we saw he even displayed


mortality which can never be found in


God. He


died. All right? So that is the humanity


of Jesus. However, he's fully God and


fully man at the same time. Why? Because


so what is the difference? And this is


why most people cannot explain Jesus is


God. Because oh, but he's tired. But no,


that is everything you find in God can


be found in God. But not everything you


find in Jesus in his humanity can be


found in God. And those two truth


coexisted perfectly in the presence of


Jesus. Amen. Look at that. Colossians


chapter 2.


Colossians chapter 2 and verse


9 it says for in him dwelleth all the


fullness of the godhead bodily. So God


in Jesus showed the fact that everything


about God is found in Jesus but not


everything about Jesus is found in God.


That is a paradox but it's true. Are you


following? I repeat it again and again


so that you get it so that you


understand how you also can function in


two worlds at the same time because for


Jesus he is God but as a man there are


some limitations but in his godness no


limitation in his manness limitation he


can only be in one place at a time as


God is omnipresent but he's not present


right now in Galilee so in his words and


in his deeds there will be other ways he


will he will walk in that order but He


he did not stop being God when he became


a man. No, he's fully God, fully man.


The only difference is that not all the


attributes


uh all the attributes of God are found


in his humanity, but not all the


attributes and also not all the


attributes of his humanity can be found


in God. Never, never, ever, ever. Amen.


And so that demarcation must be


mentioned. Hallelujah.


So also with us we must learn how we too


can function into words. Genesis 1 vers1


in the beginning God created the heaven


and the earth. Man was made for the


heavens and for the earth because the


heavens is the Lord. The earth has given


to the sons of men. Speaking of location


for God made man to dwell on the earth


and made supernatural beings to dwell in


heaven. So God dwells in heaven. Man


dwells on the earth. They are not


planets away from each other. It is


based on constitution. God is spirit.


John 4:24. God is spirit. So where will


he dwell? In the spirit world. Where is


the spirit world? Yeah. Just like the


air and the sky is here in the natural.


But you are not seeing it. That's how


the unseen world is here because it's


also depicted by the air and the sky. I


mean see how intelligent the ancient men


were. The air and the sky depict the


unseen world. That's the same way the


air and the sky they are in the natural


but they are what we call natural or


unseen. Air is natural but you are not


seen physically. They are but you can


see the effect. However, the unseen


world can now be seen by set of of of


devices. And I mentioned something on


Sunday about uh what veils the seen and


the unseen world is the mind. The mind


is how we live on the earth. God


breatheed into man and man became a


living soul. Your mind is how you live


and function on the earth. Amen. And God


wants us with full cognition to function


in the unseen. We are not doing Jehovah


sc that are contacting. They have to go


beside themsel. In fact, one of the ways


you know something is wrong with once a


man operating supernatural without


cognition. You can tell that it may be


of the


devil very obvious because by the Holy


Spirit we have full cognition and I


shared with you natural things that can


get a man out of that


drugs, alcohol, weed all those many that


kind of lifestyle puts you between words


and you see that you are not in full you


are not in full cognition. You are not


in your sound mind but you are between


words. The same thing with


insanity, exhaustion, tiredness, all of


those natural things. I did not add one


because I didn't want pregnant women to


get angry. That's the same way pregnant


women many times are between words too.


And you must be very careful with


because she's carrying another life and


sometimes the whole effect puts her


between words so that when the woman


finally gives birth, she looks different


like


say this woman you were different. So


husbands are taught and that's why the


pregnant woman must be spiritual the


proper way must know the word of God to


bring that in check and not be saying


that's how we are that's not how anybody


so because you are carrying another life


so there are many times if not handled


proper that's why it is a strength and a


power when you know how to bring your


mind under when you have mental


fortitude and strength because that can


put you between words. Ah, she's


bringing life into this world. She as


she's tampering with


powers. Ah, she's becoming a


co-creator. She's she's she's between


words at that time. And that's why even


the first week they say when the woman


has given birth, take care of her very


well. She's still in a very fragile


state because if she's just bing her


head and swinging her head anyhow,


swinging, she can just from there.


Psych. You guys are looking at me. I see


that you were in abush


now looking at me like it's your first


time of hearing what I'm saying things


looking so lost to them be learning


things you're getting older you that are


ladies these things looking shocking to


youh what you going to do Brazilian hair


your whole desire is weak better learn


meaningful things that helps your


life but is looking for the best the


best you be the best you want somebody


else to be the best and sweep you off


your foot. You sweep somebody else off


your


foot work on yourself too. Please don't


be a minus looking for a plus. It's 1


plus one, not half one plus half. 1 plus


half is one and a half. It's 1 plus one


that is one. Work on yourself as well.


Amen. Amen. But to teach men to be


patient because many times that can


happen where she just look like and


that's why she's having all manner of


cravings because that hormones that


again is those things are tampered with


because the way God made man the spirit


is in the body and your body can affect


your spirit as much as your spirit can


affect your body. That's why you can get


tired after moving the power of God. For


those of you and when you build


capacity, you can now handle more a full


stadium and you still have enough


strength to go. When we're growing in


the things of the spirit, we get easily


tired, exhausted. But over


time, you go again and again and again.


Say not tire is me is spiritual


strength, his stamina, his staying


power. Jesus said I perceive virtue left


me. So you can feel it. You can feel


that's the same reason why we tell


people I know the person is healed. Now


people are wondering it's not love


because we know now if something leave


you not go know something leave you. The


same way you know something leave you.


The same way you feel headache you feel


something. That's the way we we know


something has left us when we are moving


the power of God. Amen. Because it can


and I teach that over the years. Two


ways you can move in the power of God.


the principle of divine life and the


principle of divine power. The principle


of divine life is exhaustion. That is


the function of the anointing where you


put your hand on people because by the


increase of your strength, the more


proficient you are in the things of the


spirit, the more so it's basically like


the person is taking from you because


you have strength. The principle of


divine power. Bush. That one will not be


exalted. Just eat it. But when you


without saying much, you just touch the


person. All right. Be healed. Take


it. If it's your first time, you'll


tire. You'll tire. Hey. See. All right.


And that's why when you lean and


function much under the anointing, you


see those papay video where people start


supporting because hours you have been


ministering like that. It's not just


because he was getting old. Of course


that also had an effect because his


physical body could not match what his


spirit was giving out. So somebody by


the right and the left supporting his


hand then he was already 75 76


uh 80. Ah so and moving in the power of


God standing there moving the power of


God for hours that's a lot. His physical


body can no longer take it but


his his spirit can take it. That's why


you take care of your body. If not, if


you not your spirit will leave your body


for


you. One will live one which is death


which is why we don't glorify that state


and say oh I can't wish I can't wait to


to be with the lord in the sense of I


can't wait to die if death is a good


thing. That is what God saves us from


that spirit away from the body because


God wants the spirit to be in the body


forever which is how it's going to be in


the resurrection because the spirit and


the body were made together but our


bodies now do not match the right in our


spirit. So it can easily suffer wear and


tear just small power your body's


already getting tired because the glory


within and the glory externally are not


matching but soon when the glory


externally your body's put on


immortality it will match. Hallelujah.


Amen. So


um where you perceive virtue left you.


So all of those things there's a lot


about the the supernatural words when I


was teaching you on visions seeing to


the spirit and all of those things is


called revelation apocalyopsis. Why?


Because there's now an


uncovering because it is your mind. So I


told you the distance between the


natural and supernatural is what your


mind that's what veils it your mind. So


that is happening your mind does not


mean it's not the realm of the spirit.


Your mind is how you function on the


earth. So whosoever has your mind has


you. If Satan has your mind, you don't


die. If God has your mind, you do


better. And that's why the greatest


asset you have is a renewed mind. Not I


speak my mind. I speak my mind raising


voice shouting. That's not how you solve


any issue. In fact, that's the way you


go violent if you want to. It's not I'll


talk or I'll talk. We don't do that.


Yeah. Same thing we teach couples. Uh


your power as a woman is not in your is


not in you being masculine. You are not


masculine. You are feminine. Your power


is in your femininity. You don't have to


I need to match the man. Don't match him


because he will soon match with head


because don't go the way that is not.


Your power is actually in your


femininity. Not in your masculinity. You


are not a man. Don't become a man. He


say he's not hearing me. So you you you


go higher. You go higher. No. No. Use


your femininity which is just simple


words babe I love you but the way you


are sounding now aha that already not so


the man does not think you are ready for


war you can't be ready for war you can't


win him now the man is such a


weakling four moves you are on the


ground oh it doesn't take more than that


to put any living soul on the


ground the law


of Mortal Kombat


now kak kung fu


taiishi


sensei so all right so it doesn't take I


remember


uh many when I was a teenager they were


told three moves put a man on the ground


four moves put a man on the ground are


you willing to learn yes


sir Four moves put a man on the ground.


So you know the sensitive places to


touch and any giant can be brought low.


Are you ready? Yes, sir. Thank God we're


not using


it. Guys are in the realm of the spirit


so you didn't get that. It's not


prayer.


Prayer


prayer. Thank God God saved us early.


must be


brutality. So the mind is very very


important. Are you with me? The brain is


very very very important. What you do


with your mind is very very important.


So be careful what you do with your


mind. So


uh where again I mentioned this on


Sunday but it doesn't hurt repeating it


again and again where you also uh


believe that they are holding back and


you don't want the proper route and you


want they holding back there's more


there's more and because it's


selfishness is devilish wisdom pride


show off that making you want more of


the power of God you also before you


know the person looks beside them And


you wonder is this believer manipulator


is manipulated which is why your safety


is in sound doctrine. So I say this


which is part of one of my popular


quotes. Never trust a man's thoughts


here the lord that is not rooted in


sound doctrine. Never never trust a man


supernatural that is outside sound


doctrine. One day command will come out


from it. Which is why we're not I was


not surprised when I hear that preacher


said the holy Jesus told him that he


does not associate with the poor. His


Jesus will tell him that now his Jesus


is outside


scriptures. The same with the other ones


Jesus told him about the mystery of


it and what follows it. They have


different Jesuses because once your


doctrine is not sound, you will hear the


mystery of


washing. You will hear the mystery of


being a high priest like Jesus Christ


sprinkling. You will get all those kind


of mysteries because your Jesus will be


telling you


things that he has fulfilled the


scriptures will be telling you that now


you should engage the mystery of the you


are engaging but I thought we say we


have you see that Jesus now is not


looking like Jesus in the Bible again


that's why we stick with sound doctrine


you may think oh I can move in power


without sound of course you can because


that is the mercy and the grace of God


but you


We can judge and we can over time see


the mistakes and the errors that will


come out from it which some of them are


learning now. I've seen Apostle Sulman


correct himself a lot now of recent time


though God is helping him I'll just put


it like that so that nobody thinks I'm


throwing shades at him we has corrected


himself of oh when I started then I will


not preach I just come and say there's


somebody here and do that for three 8


hours 6 hours I've destroyed many lives


ah finally this is what we were saying


since thank God you have seen with your


mouth now that you have destroyed lives


with the prophetic and that's not the


prophetic that's not how to handle do


it. Cannot tear a home, destroy a home


in the name of you are being forensic.


That's not being


forensic. Amen.


So there's how to use the things of the


spirit. So the mind is very very


important. The mind is very very


important. And I've showed with you


those stories of the bush bash


brothers. I say pastor go is holding


back on us. There's more hold back on


you. Every pastor is holding back on you


in this world. Which pastor go is that


one that I thought you know how many


resource we have on the things of the


spirit holding back. Ah no no


[Laughter]


no it's YouTube music I blame as I'm


playing it in my car it will just enter


because it's always sgest for me. No no


no. So get ready for more of no no no


today. All right. Once I say something


I'll just drop no no no for you.


Amen.


Cuz I'm influenced though. Say, how can


the man of God I'm under influence? I've


told you before. I'm never told you I'm


not in I can't be


influenced. But of course it has that's


a good song. So it's godly. So just that


the things of God should not trend. But


I mean the lines are perfect,


scriptural, exact, on point, amazing.


All


right. So pastor said we should not


sing. You have itchy ear. You should be


in green white green building. How can I


say something that's stupid? It's a


godly song. The lines are all scriptural


and why shouldn't you listen to it? I'm


simply telling you that don't try to


make the things of God trend. It's


unnecessary. It is not made for that. It


is for all seasons. Don't make it. Don't


try to make it. Don't have the same


ambition unbelievers have. No, you don't


take over like that. That's why you now


see unbelievers using it for wrong


purposes. That's that's not taking over


now. No, it does. You don't take over


like that. Again, outside sounding


people have many take over mentality. Is


the reason why we have lost many of our


fine girls to most beautiful girl to


pageantss to shows because they say they


should take over. Go inside that sector.


Go inside the sector sector


them. The same way I think there are


some governors that have been pastors


that were thiefs because he has been a


thief


since he was always a thief. I mean


that's why there's proper disciplehip


and why we have that mode experience


where we try to give you all that


necessary wisdom to be the best of two


worlds and learning how to function cuz


Christians don't know how to function in


society. They will fall our hand. They


will turn to something else.


No. So the mind is very very important.


So Romans chapter 8, Romans chapter


8, for they that are after the flesh do


mind the things of the flesh, but that


after the spirit the things of the


spirit. For to be kindly minded is death


but spiritually minded is life and


peace. The canal mind is enmity against


God is not to the law of God in it can


be so that in the flesh cannot praise


God. So I must ensure that my mind is


not towards the things of the flesh but


towards the spirit. So once I have


gotten saved, this is how I must now


position my mind. Amen. Colossians


chapter 3, it says, "If you be risen


with Christ, seek those things which are


above, where Christ seated on the right


hand of God." Verse two, "Set your


affection on things above, not on things


on the earth. For you are dead and your


life is hid with Christ in God." So the


renewed mind is very


important. The renewed mind is what?


Very very very very


important. Ephesians chapter


4 verse 22. that you put off concerning


the former conversation, the old man


which is corrupt according to a


deceitful laws and be renewed in the


spirit of your mind. Did you see it? Be


renewed in the spirit of your mind that


you put on the new man which after God


is created in righteousness and true


holiness. So how do you put off the old


man in your mind? How do you put on the


new man in your mind? So mind how you


think. Mind how you Mind how you think.


Mind how you


think. That's the same way we walk in


newness of life. Romans 6:4 is in our


mind. When you all those walk in the


spirit, walk in the light, walk in the


truth. How do you walk is in your mind,


with your mind, in and with your mind.


Amen. Romans 6:4. Therefore, we are


buried with him by baptism unto death.


That like as Christ was raised up from


the dead by the glory of the father,


even so we should walk in newness of


life. Newness of life. Newness of


life.


Amen. And we are of the same mind in the


Lord. The same mind. He say let this


mind be you which was also in Christ


Jesus. The same mind be of the same


mind. We are told about the mind. Very


very very very


important. Very very important. What I


do with my mind is very important. I


cannot say it is not important. No. In


fact, look at


Jesus telling us


to take


heed. Mark 4:24. Now observe these


different things he say should take heed


of. Mark


4:24. And he said unto them, take heed


what you hear. Take heed what you hear.


Be careful about how you hear. Notice


all the caution in scripture. Take it


how you ear. For with what measure you


meet, it shall be met unto you. And unto


you that year shall more be given. For


he that had to him shall be given. And


he that had not from him shall be taken


even that which he had. Take heed how


you


hear. Take heed how you


hear. How you


hear? How you


year? Hallelujah.


Mark chapter Matthew chapter


6. Mark Matthew chapter 6. Matthew


chapter 6. Matthew chapter


6 verse 31. It says, "Therefore take no


thought, saying, what shall we eat? What


shall we drink? We wherewith shall we be


clothed?" The same thing again in verse


34. Take therefore no thought for


tomorrow. Take therefore no


thought. The


thoughts. The thoughts because the


thoughts are very important.


what you


think. Take no thought. Be careful how


you think. How I think. How I exercise


my mind.


So how I think is very


important. How I think is very


important. How I use information, how I


take information is very important. Why?


Because man is a product of influence.


Amen. Man is a product of influence. Our


choices can be shaped by five


sources. Number one,


yourself. Uh let's put it this way, good


human beings of plus yourself because


you you can shape your thoughts. You can


you can influence your own actions


yourself that oh I'm going to do this.


I'm going to do


this. So good human beings can influence


one


another. Bad human beings. So good human


beings, good human images, bad human


images. 1 Corinthians 15:33, evil


communication corrupt good


manners being or deceive evil


communication corrupt good manners. Man


is a product of influence.


Thirdly, evil divine images.


evil, evil divine images, which you say


evil supernatural


beings, evil supernatural beings, which


is why you must take it how you think.


In John


13:22, then the disciples look one to


another, doubting of whom he spake. Now


there was lean on Jesus bon one of the


disciples whom Jesus loved, Simon Peter,


therefore beckon to him that he should


ask who he should be of whom he spake.


He then lying on Jesus's bread said unto


him, Lord, who is it? And Jesus


answered, "He it is to whom I shall give


a so when I have dipped." And when he


had dipped the soap, he gave it to


Judas's scar, the son of Simon. And


after the sub, Satan entered into him.


So what Judas did was under Now you know


this is from the supernatural angle that


we are seeing it. But to Judas, it was


with his clear head, but it was devil.


All right? This is uh John 13:227. It


was the devil that influenced


him. The same way in 1 Chronicles 21


where David numbered Israel, it was


Satan. Chronicles use


Satan, Satan stirred up. So there are


many actions. Why have Satan filled your


heart to lie?


Book of


Acts. Acts 5:3 and Peter said unto Anas,


why has Satan filled thy heart to lie to


the Holy Ghost and to keep back part of


the pride of the land? Acts 5:3. So, it


was Satan. But it looked like it was not


Satan. They have both decided what we


are going to do. But it was Satan.


So, evil divine images, evil


supernatural beings. Then good


supernatural beings can also influence


Good supernatural beings can also


influence. Good supernatural beings can


also what?


Influence. We saw that with Mary her


choice. We saw that with Joseph say take


don't be afraid. Take take the woman to


being warned in the same thing with the


wise men. good supernatural beings


influence the action because they were


going to go back to tell Herod being


warned in a


dream. In fact, Philip joining the uh


the angel told him to join himself to


that


chariot that's influencing his action.


He was not who goes into the wilderness.


So he was influenced. There are so many


actions the same way why Peter thought


on these things. The angel spoke to


Cornelius. I mean you see the whole


angel part good angels have always


influenced people's actions all right


the same way they told Gideon told


uh Manuel Samson's parents I mean good


angels and lastly God himself which is


the most important our choices are


influenced God influences our choices


too where he tells us what to


too. Why Peter was thinking on this


thing? He said, "The spirit made me go."


There's a book written by one of the


old-timers. The spirit bade me


go. The spirit bade me go. Acts 11:12.


Why Peter taught on these things. The


spirit so the spirit of God bade him go.


The holy spirit cannot just we can in


fact it is not in man. There are a lot


of emphasis about divine direction and


we've taught that over the years. So we


can be led by the spirit of


God. We can be led by the spirit of


God.


Amen. We can be led by the spirit of God


in


different matters. So God directs us,


helps us. That's Jeremiah 10:23. Oh


Lord, I know that the way of man is not


in himself. It is not a man that walketh


to direct his steps. So God obviously


can influence us himself.


Amen.


So God can influence us. Good angels can


influence us. Bad angels can influence


which are devils or demons. Good human


beings plus yourself can influence you


and bad people can influence you. Never


underestimate that. Never what? Never


underestimate that. Let me read the text


for you and see how Satan can rile up


people. Satan can ri up


people. The book of Acts. Just uh


quickly read that text.


Acts 21.


Acts 23:21. Sorry. Acts


23:21. Just to give a bit of


context, this is where people were


plotting to kill Paul. So let's start


from verse 12 so that you can get the


story for those who it may appear like


this their first time reading it. And


when it was they setting up the Jews


banded together and bound themselves


under a curse saying that they would


neither eat nor drink till they have


killed


Paul. They they bind themselves under a


curse and said they will not eat or


drink until they kill Paul because Paul


was put in Jerusalem. You know the whole


story start from verse one and it starts


from Acts 20 downward. You see the whole


story and he Paul himself knew he had to


go to Jerusalem. So the Lord did not


tell him not to go to Jerusalem but he


said I go bound his feet to Jerusalem.


So he knew he had to the witness was


telling him to go to Jerusalem because


the persecution no persecution. God


wanted him to still preach the gospel


there. However, he knew something was


going to happen but God not him not to


go. Even Agabos a more skillful prophet.


The other disciples there which I wrote


in my book on simplicity of the


prophetic were doing what not send them.


They now interpreted they knew something


was going to happen. So they told Paul


and the Bible say they by the spirit


they told Paul not to go. Who said that


was not what God was saying but just say


that something is going to everybody


knew even Paul knew something was going


to happen but he did not know the


detail. Agamos came and say burns and


affliction. So he now mentioned the


detail that they have not been able to


get. Yeah. So they got that and he said


he didn't say don't go. He said this is


what will happen to the man. That's


mature prophetic. Didn't say don't go.


The other ones said don't go. The other


one said don't go.


But he said, "Why are you breaking my


heart? I I know I'm supposed to go. I go


bound in the spirit of Jerusalem." So he


knew he had to go. That's the inward


witness. Always follow the inward


witness. That nudge that I know that I


know that I know that I know that what I


know. Know that I know that. I know


that. I know. It's always in everyone.


It's how God leads us. It's the primary


way. In fact, he leads us today by that


inward witness. You just know that. You


know that. You know that. You know that.


What you know, know that you know.


Follow it. That nudge within you.


And so he went and this is that story


now he's there preaching and they have


come to arrest him and in fact uh


according to Agabos prophecy though it


didn't happen letter by letter because


our actions so


the gentile rescued him from the Jews


that want to kill


him the soldier so but there was a


rescuing this we take him from this so


that detail because there were too many


choices so Agabos what he saw somebody


asked me years ago and I wrote it in


that same book. Is that wrong? No. It is


is it that it was a wrong word? No. The


details are that he will be handed by


one person another person and the Jew


and the Gentiles were both there.


So the that is not what is needed for


accuracy. That is accurate. That's how


you judge prophetic revelations because


the choices anybody could have handed


him to over


to so because that what Agabos saw was


the normal order it was supposed to be


but thank God that centurion rescued


Paul. If not they would have daggered


Paul if the soldier did not rescue Paul


from his fellow brother's


hand. So when they had rescued


Paul and verse 10, and when they arose a


great dissension, the chief captain,


fearing less Paul should be pulled in


pieces of them, commanded the soldiers


to go down and take him by force from


among them and to bring him into the


castle. So the gentile soldiers, they


rescued Paul because the people were


already ready to eat Paul


up. And that night following, the Lord


stood by him and said, "Be of good


cheer." You see why forces is needed. Be


of good Paul. For as thou has testified


of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear


witness also at room. So you're not


going to die here. You're not going to


die. And he had not gotten that


revelation since. But in that same means


he's


hearing be of good cheer Paul for. So


that this kind of I've told you the cing


in the vision is the utterance always


learn that the cing in the vision is not


I saw I saw some people glorify I saw I


saw I saw I saw I what does it


mean that's how again you know people


that are not mature the cing in a vision


is not what you see it's what you hear


what does that mean what did you hear


from that vision because that's why we


inter we don't interpret the sight we


interpret the the orances because with


God's word because you you heard


something you can see anything is the


meaning you are giving to it so that


meaning is utterance what was that


meaning given to it so the court thing


in a vision is the utterance that's why


he heard in a vision


anas acts chapter 9 anas heard in a


vision you see that's a mistake is that


he saw in a vision no that's already


obvious you see in a vision he's trying


to show you the principle of engaging a


vision, how you prolong or shorten a


vision. So this thing came from Paul's I


can tell you how Paul had this vision


while he was thinking about so I'm here


now so this is how I'm going to die and


he just prayed in the Holy Ghost that


vision popped up before him and


interacted with it. That's why they


didn't have to put it in a very


supernatural way that why Paul was in


the prison. Oh, bright light. No, no, it


was not that kind of encounter because


this is not an encounter type. This is


just a


vision. It's not that something the Lord


wants. It's not why is the bush bunny


and is not consumed. It's not that


type cuz this is in his relationship


with the Lord which you have had but you


didn't think it was important where


things pop up like that. You see


something you don't get. What does this


mean? What does this mean? I in fact


yesterday we're going out somewhere. I


just saw that we got there and we didn't


have the key. So we're still in the


street. I just said let's re do you have


they said no I forgot the key. We


reverse back. I just just


flashed that ah the key. I say you would


have driven long distance say h dreaming


to return back again. Ah ah


no no no.


Let's just quickly do it now cuz I saw


it just


flash somebody else was getting the same


are we maybe out of curiosity maybe just


as I hope we have this but I don't take


coincidence I don't I never believe in


co that somebody else also was having


that same feeling me I talk my own I


don't they keep


things so that's again how people learn


maturity so I quickly everything's a


teachable moment when you are with your


pastor so I use it to explain to the


person should have said it. Don't keep


it in your heart. When things come to


you like that and you are not the one


going after it, it's always


supernatural. I've learned that I'm


going somewhere and I just it just comes


to me like that. Hey, don't go out. I


don't go I don't go. Just come to me.


Leave your car. Go by another means. You


see, you never can tell the day people


are planning evil against you. But by


the spirit, you know, you know, I've


I've said it even in days where they are


protesting. I've never been in those


kind of places where I'm just held up.


Remember them where they were going to I


didn't just show up that day. I just


woke up and I just knew not to. Then


that was the day they were throwing


stone that broke glass bank glasses


opposite my office


and I see pastors just seem to be lucky.


Not luck. You know, you not the lucky


two. No, I do. I I function more than


luck. There's something I use is greater


than it.


We're going to make purchase for a


property. We just made


purchase in was that 10 minutes but


that's 10 not up to 10 15 minutes not


even up to 10 somebody else had come


that was ready in less than 2 minutes


somebody else was present that wanted to


pay and would have paid a higher


amount and I went out the day I'm not


supposed to go out that day I'm supposed


to be tired and sleep I said no let's


just go and see that place


now if not life is just like that you


say no it's locked No, follow those


nudge. I've learned even in and by every


means that was against my order. I


shouldn't go out. I should be tired. I


should rest. But no, no, no. Let's go.


Let's go. So wisdom covers for I said


since then I should not just drive.


Somebody else should drive since


I'm say being wise. So because it's the


exhaustion that I'm tired. Okay,


somebody else can just go and come back.


But glory be to God.


that I yielded to those things. Amen.


I've been walking down the road and I


just said, "Stop. Stay back." And a big


stone. I will not be alive today. That


stone was so big is bigger than this uh


is bigger than this Bible opened like


this that somebody threw from the next


compound. Who throws big stone like


that? Is it that you don't? And is


people pass that back


now? It's not like I was rubbing my back


on the fence as I'm walking. So he


didn't even drop it by the side of the


fence. He just throw


uh not be in my


head. Yeah. That's why you say those


things. You are giving there are things


say ah it just look like his own case is


just different. Be led by the spirit of


God. Follow all those n don't go here.


Do it like this. Observe this. I follow


everything. I follow everything. was the


time


uh brother Mavis took us on that road.


That was the day I stopped taking that


road. Then they now had to go and


reverse back because they have blocked


the road. I no no no no no man life


is and I just unnecessary not pastor had


showed me a new road. So that he showed


me the new road the day before. The next


day I took that road and that was the


day they blocked the road that we were


taking corner road but I didn't I didn't


see it.


He say it just look different for him.


Things always look different for me. I


was telling my wife that we're going to


take another road. Then brother Joshua


called me to tell me that there's


something happen. Let's take another


road. This I was just saying I would not


like to follow this road. See there's


something about just being led by the


seem like accident happens on one side


not they ever catch


[Laughter]


me I wish that can it can we can be


intentional we living like that just


follow every


nudge follow every nudge I feel like


leaving the house and taking uh uh I


don't have to lick why do I feel like


just put it there you'll just see the


need later there's that there's one


there's that one movie I saw something a


concept like that. I can't remember the


name now. Does one of these kind It's


all has to be an action movie. I don't


do I need you to survive


movies. I want I don't I just need to


know that it's action fiction. Let's get


out of


there. It's like an assassin kind of


movie where we look like they could


predict some things ahead and just take


see we have something greater than all


of that reality. You can tell. So I may


need I think in that movie the person


needed an inhaler just he didn't know


why he just took the inhaler later he


had need for it all not that he himself


but somebody else everything


join that reality that they try to act


in all those movies that look super and


beyond it's normal with the believer


when we stay in our element that's what


we're talking about to so that you learn


how to live like


that learn how to live like that learn


how to live like that learn how to live


like that. Learn how to engage people


like that. Always follow that


nudge this afternoon or something. And I


just kept that notch that brother should


not drive with that car even if the


paper cuz just I could not place my so I


will just drive myself and go and see


what they are doing and bring my wife


back. I don't want because they just why


am I getting that consistent flash that


I can't place my hand around this and


not use my life and psych experiment


what if what


if not everything must be dead or but I


don't want to it's better to not


experience it than to experience it and


I say ah


hey let's learn those things hallelujah


Yeah, let's learn those things. Let's


learn those things. So that's what is


happening here. Acts 23. So he says, "Be


of good cheer, Paul, for as thou hast


testified of me in Jerusalem and must


thou you must bear witness also at Rome.


And when it was day, so the daytime day,


setting of the Jews, banded themselves


together, bound themselves under a


course, saying that they will neither


eat nor drink till they have killed


Paul. You know how people b a c. Now all


of them came together and said, "Hey,


let this and this happen to us. We will


not kill that guy. We must he must buy.


He must die." You know, put it in


today's phrasing. You understand?


That's exactly


what you agree. You agree, but you see


that it was they were powered by the


devil and they were more than


40. Once you see a common thinking that


is against the normal order, a spirit is


involved. Every time you see a thinking


that is against the norm, a spirit is


involved. That's why I could never join.


Uh I I I love the whole fight against


police brutality. I have helped many


persons out of police brutality and we


pray and want the police uh uh to be


reformed. But you see once something


done they uh in in infringe on other


human rights. I mean that was so


terrible. I remember my wife was


pregnant in that season. I couldn't even


take her to the hospital. We have to


pass corner corner corner corner corner


corner road and be trusting God that


very wicked people who block the front


that leads to a hospital. But that's how


you know they are not human. They are


not being not because you are fighting


for police brutality. You don't come


around call places where people will


need to assess. People need to access


hospitals. You don't block road to


hospitals now. Don't block into places


that life


matter. No, we will speak up. We will


speak up. Everybody that they suffer


these things. It's not everybody. It's


you who dress well, who of course it is


not good what they do. But it's not


really everybody that suffers it. Let's


be be frank about it. Of course, people


who behave well have also suffered. And


that's the reason why we must never take


side with oppression, take side with


brutality. But not everybody obviously


suffer those


suffer and now your brother will suffer


it. That's not the reason why we do


good. It's not because our brother will


suffer it. It's because the team itself


is wrong. Police brutality is wrong. You


can speak against that. I'm talking


about now I mean during that NSA protest


I see how it was hijacked for you know


nobody could go out anywhere again


stealing in shop. How is that one police


brutality now but people can't I don't


know how people can't predict things


like that. You should be able to predict


things like that because you can see


that this thing is no longer natural.


Now a spirit is involved. When you start


seeing people say ah we're going to ah


we're going to kill them. Hey we're


goingh. No no no no no. Back away. Drop


your placard. leave them. We were


protect which is your fundamental human


right to speak against what you don't


like but it's not your fundamental human


right to destroy somebody's property.


No, don't don't go beyond exercise your


human right to the limits you can but


don't infringe other person's


own you that's being normal a good


citizen you have every right to speak


against what you don't like in society


on any platform as much as it is civil


it is not what they will bring uh uh


litigations against you


over do it in all the normal sane way


fight for all the things you want to


fight for good and fine


time. But you see once you start seeing


that common thinking, that common


thinking that is looking against order,


oh r God is for order. Anything that is


not for order is either is evil or is of


the


devil. You should that should be your


discernment, your cue to know something


wrong here. So they bound themselves.


You must have easy ways of spotting


things that are chaos. So the same way


I'm talking to somebody and the person


told me that um the Lord is telling me


that I should be very careful about this


whole honor thing because there's human


worship. I know I just laughing. I know


the Lord. He's the one that we used to


rebuke. He's the one that the person the


devil is that person's lord. Which lord


is that one? Our Lord is already outside


Bible. The Lord is giving you


admonitions about you must be very


careful about honor. God never teach us


to be careful with the foot of the


spirit. Dummy, we don't get careful with


foot of the


spirit. God told you to be careful with


horn. I don't really need to listen to


the next statement say no. It's just the


way I'm putting it. Anyhow you are


putting it is wrong. There's never a


time that anything of the spirit will be


wrong. Any good conduct is never wrong.


There never a time that any good conduct


will ever be wrong. That will not God is


telling me to be careful of


self-control. Uh that is because I'm too


I too much have self-control. That's why


nonsense is happening to me. How does


that sound? God is telling me that this


my patience. You are too patient self.


That's why people are riding over you.


That's not why people are riding over


you. You are not sagashious. You are not


wise. You don't have street sense.


That's why I use that big word. It's not


big word. Must have street sense. Must


be shrewd. sagashious those big big


English that we don't like but those are


proper words for wisdom that covers


those expression now it's not patience


that was your problem nothing is wrong


with patience say because you are a


forgiving person that's why it's not


because you are a forgiving there's not


don't find fault with the right things


nothing is wrong with forgiveness


because you are a forgiving person say


because you are generous person no


nothing is wrong with generosity speak


against don't fight what is of the


spirit say because you are a kind person


There's nothing wrong with kindness.


Don't regret good


things. It's not evil that


overcomes good. It's good that overcomes


evil.


Amen. Those are basic rules of


discernment. And you can tell that once


this is going against the normal order.


I know that this is either an a wrong


influence, the devil, bad


images, but this is not God. This is not


good


images, good human beings. This is not


the Holy Spirit and this is not good


supernatural beings. Nah, that is


influencing this action. Be able to


tell. That's what we are talking about


about being wise and strong with his


power. Be able to tell that this is not


from God. No, this is not from God.


There were about 40 which made this


conspiracy who swore together and they


came to the chief priests and elders and


said we have they were not even they


they said body we have bound oursel


under a great cause we will eat nothing


until we have slain Paul. Now therefore


ye with the council signify to the chief


captain that to bring him down unto you


tomorrow as though you would enquire


something more perfectly concerning him


we orever he come near are ready to kill


him. So you see there was a strategy


that once you are bringing down to come


and hear the matter now they will take


him and when Paul's sister's son heard


of they lying in weight see good


person a good


person he went and enter into the castle


and told Paul what did he tell


Paul then Paul called one of the


centurions unto him and said bring this


young unto to the chief captain for he


had something to tell him and he took


him and brought him to the chief captain


and said Paul the prisoner called me


unto him and prayed me to bring this


young man onto thee who had something to


say unto the is he being wise telling


Paul will not solve the issue because


Paul is going to be brought by that


chief captain out so when Paul's sister


son told Paul you see this is you don't


need to listen my son we must be wise


must be wise with God has already told


him. Remember God had already told him


before that he will surely be brought to


him. But they see see that people are


still trying to kill him. Everything


join you have to. So it was God. You can


now tell that it was God that made


somebody to


hear if nobody was now present who could


have heard. God would have told Paul by


himself. But it would have lacked


credibility


for it would have lacked credibility if


he had just called the chief cafe and


said the Lord is revealing something to


me about that they complying.


Huh? Who are you? Who your lord? But now


somebody else that is being used so it


will make sense. I mean don't always


determine how God will set you free, how


things will work. Say it must can God


just reveal to me? No. There's somebody


else that somebody else was needed in


that


matter. And the chief captain took him


by the hand and went aside. I'm in Acts


23. We are in verse


19. What is it that thou has to tell me?


And he said, the Jews have agreed to and


desired thee that thou would bring down


Paul to move unto the council as though


he would inquire somewhat of him more


perfectly. But do do not thou yield unto


them. For there lie in weight for him of


them more than 40 men which have bound


themselves with an oath that they will


neither eat nor drink till they have


killed him. And now are they ready


looking for a promise from thee? And the


chief captain then let the young man


depart and charge him. See thou tell no


man. You see the common sense again. Say


no. We know the powers that we have. The


Lord is watching over me. Haha. On


Twitter, pom pom pom


pom. Apostle Paul may go through storms,


but he will always survive. Anything


they plan against him, they will not be


able to kill him. He's in the night.


They will kill


him. Must know the place of


discretion. All right. Say, but the Lord


is working with me. He's really working


with you. And so the chief captain then


let the young man depart and charge him.


See thou tell no man that thou hast


showed this to me? And he called unto


him two centurions, saying, make ready


200 soldiers to go to Cesaria and and


horsemen the score and 10 and spearmen


200 at the third hour of the night and


provide them beast that they may set


Paul on and bring him onto Felix the


governor. Are you see God used that


chief captain for Paul and he didn't


have to be born again? He just had to be


a man that is for righteousness, for


doing things


right. Use. Look how many persons God


have used. But is he not a supernatural


story? Yes. But did not remove the place


of the natural. Let's stop this. And I'm


an advocate of being the best of two


words. I'm an advocate and I will always


be because I've seen how many believers


make a mockery of the things of the


spirit. The same thing just like we're


having that conversation yesterday.


There are so many person who say I'm for


sound doctrine but no supernatural. Why


do we always have to do one this versus


this? Your doctrine is sound but you


don't believe in power. How come?


Because and it's so common to see people


that's how doctrine is not


sound. Me I know I just need to now


because you see you can do nothing


against the truth but for the truth.


That's already obvious that something is


wrong. How can sound doctrine be against


something that is of sound doctrine. So


we not see


that something that's not how we


determine things.


You see those people that bound


themsel and


said they will not eat or


drink? Were they being


influenced? Could it have been God


influencing those people to bind with an


O to kill Paul?


Thank you. All


right. So that vow to kill Paul that's


supernatural. That's how much people can


be influenced. So I told you life is


like a force of wind. Unseen forces can


guide us to where we need to go.


So just like wind can move us forward


that's the same way unseen forces can


guide us to where we need to go or can


seek to stop us from going where we need


to go and we cannot remove that place


it's just there quietly they don't have


to always say now this is something


supernatural that is about to happen


here but you just read it between the


lines let's look at Esther's story a


bit let's look at Esther's story a


Esther


chapter


4 let's even start from verse one


chapter one of uh the Esther story


uh after Vashi is being removed as


queen. Of course, this is just a Cana


King of course just uh a Cana setup but


ultimately it will yield to something so


to yield to something


meaningful because who gets angry with


his wife that his wife does not do what


that king wanted his wife to do. So


that's canality. However, kings of those


days act weird because they get to pick


as much wives as they


do because he didn't obey the order of


the king


Aaseros. So the background of the story


starts from chapter one. Are you with


me? So we now have chapter two which is


just trying to give the story. The king


is searching for a new queen. Look at 2


verse one.


After these things, when the wrath of


King Ahazeros had was appeased, he


remembered Vashy and what she had done


and what was decreed against her. Then


said the king's servant that ministered


unto him, "Let there be a fair young


virgin sought for the king. And let the


king appoint officers in all the


provinces of his kingdom, that they may


gather together all the fair young


virgins, young unmarried women." And


that's the use of the word virgin there


onto Shusha and the pal because that's


the normal way you're supposed to marry.


Are you getting it? So that's the


context of what he's speaking of. Does


not mean that the people you have


preached to now that were something else


before they got saved are now useless.


That's very ungodly way of reading the


Bible. Don't read the Bible with lenses


of condemnation. It's not fair. It's not


proper. It's not even how to read. and


let the maiden which pleased the king be


queen instead of vashi and the thing


pleased the king and he did so verse


four verse five now in shush and the


palace there was a certain Jew whose


name was


modakiah


modakiah the son of


j the son of she giving you a background


the son of kish a benjamite are you


seeing


has taken you back to the certain


lineage who had been carried away from


Jerusalem with the captivity which had


been carried away with Jeconiah king of


Judah whom


Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had


carried away and he brought up Hadasa


that is Esther his uncle's daughter for


she had neither father nor


mother. So she was orphan and the maid


was fair and beautiful whom Micaiah when


her father and mother were dead took for


his own daughter. And it came to pass


when the king's command and his decree


was heard and when many maids were


gathered together into Shushan the


palace to the custody of


Hagi that Esther was brought also into


the king's house to the custody of Hagi


keeper of the women and the maiden


pleased him and the maiden pleased him


and she obtained kindness. Is this


supernatural? Are you seeing it? of all


the many persons you now watch and see


how wisdom and the supernatural is all


coming together. It's the same thing


Joseph will do. He before he will appear


before Pharaoh. He's a dream


interpreter. He can interpret dream. He


shaved. He cannot meet the king like


that. The king will not have listened to


him. He say but God had put supernatural


things in his mouth. He was going to


just interpret that dream. Everything


just no man. No sir.


Don't remove if God want me to get a


job, I'll get a job. I don't need to


write any proposal. I don't need to


write any CV. I don't need toh is


happening here. I need to submit


anything. I don't need to talk anybody.


I don't to know anybody. Yahweh is my


connector. Divine connection. Amen.


Divine. The same thing with Jesus is my


Buddha. Some songs reflect illiteracy,


but it's okay. Not okay to sing


it. It's okay for them.


want to bose God


too. So the maiden pleased him and


obtained kindness of him and he speedily


gave her her things for purification


with such things as belonged to her and


seven maidens which were meant to be


given her out of the king's house and he


preferred her and her maids unto the


best place of the house of the women.


Esther had not showed her people nor her


kindred for me charged her that she


should not show. So she didn't reflect


that she was a Jew. All right? But that


would have meant she would they would


have say ah you an Israelite. Ah no we


can't trust you. We may be a spy. You


may be this. You may be


that.


And walked every day before the court of


the women's house to know how Esther did


and what should become of her. And when


every maid turn was come to go into King


Ahazeros, after that she had been 12


months according to the manner of the


women for so were the days of their


purification accomplished to which six


months with oil of my six months with


sweet odor. So you must send the


best to then toss came every m I told


you it's just canality Abby but you'll


see how this canality that you think why


should God be involved in all this whole


canalist story will now later be used to


preserve


life where some actions not every uh


sinful not


every sinful thing


is caner but not every kind of thing is


sinful like Food is kind of is natural


is of the flesh. So not every kind of


thing


is sinful. The clothes you are wearing


are so understand that this is just


a king's desire to have another wife and


all of that. Then thus came every maiden


unto the king whosoever she


desired was given her to go with her out


of the house of the woman unto the


king's house. In the evening she went


and tomorrow she returned unto the


second house of the women to the custody


of Shagas the king chamberlain which


kept the concubine. She came in unto the


king no more said the king delighted in


her and that she were called by name.


Now when the son of Esther the daughter


of


Abihel


Abbe the uncle of Modiah who had taken


her for his daughter was come to go in


unto the king. She required nothing but


what he the king Shabalene the keeper of


the women


appointed. Are you seeing the wisdom?


Because that person should know the


king.


No, no. I know what your other women


were doing. I know my beauty routine. I


know my style. I know my this. I know my


this person that knows the king say, "Do


it like this. Do it like this." She


followed it to the


letter. But what


he the king's traveling the keeper of


the women appointed and Esther obtained


favor in the sight of all them that


looked upon her. This this you can also


see the place of this in the natural


too. So Esther was taken unto king


Aasseros into his house Roya in the 10th


month which is the month Tet in the


seventh year of his reign. And the king


loved Esther above all the women and she


obtained grace and favor in his sight


more than all the unmarried women the


virgin so that he set the royal crown


upon her head and made her queen instead


of


vashi. King made a great feast. So


notice that she heeded to what that he


was telling


her. All right? So not just that, oh


she's finding favor, finding favor. Now


see that it is the Lord that causes us


to find such favor.


Psalm 31 verse


21. These are Psalms of David. Psalm 31


and verse 21. Blessed be the Lord for he


has shown me his marvelous kindness in a


strong city. Was that a strong city? Was


I in a that was a strong city but it was


she was still finding kindness.


Abby finding kindness in the eye of


people. For thou Lord will bless the


righteous. Psalm 5:12. With favor will


thou compass him as with a shield. With


favor will thou compass him as with a


shield. Psalm 30:7. So these are things


that uh they


knew. Psalm


30:7 in my 6 into 7 in my prosperity


shall I never be moved. That word


prosperity there is what? In my security


which is the context of the ease the


salvation. Lord by thy favor thou has


made my mountain to stand


strong. Lord by thy favor thou has made


my mountain to stand strong. You have by


favor made me a mountain unmovable.


That's what he's


saying. So in your good favor you have


made me so secure, unmovable. In your


good favor you have secured me in good


favor. That is what we believe.


Hallelujah.


Amen.


So this kind of


favor, this kind of


favor. Now Esther chapter


4. Now this was the mod the Hmon part


that have set


gallows. So Esther will have the courage


to take a big risk to meet the king when


it was not the time to meet the


king.


Verse 11. All the king's servant and the


people of the king's provinces do know


that whosoever whether man or woman


shall come unto the king into the inner


court who is not called. There is one


law of his to put him to death except


such to whom the king shall hold out the


golden scepter that he may you know this


is not how proper kings should behave.


This is a bad way of being a king.


Remember Jesus said the kings of this


world exercise dominion the wrong way.


This is not how a man ex this is not how


to actually exercise dominion proper


rulership. This is how unbelievers


exercise authority and dominion. All


right.


So just setting crazy laws except such


to whom the king shall hold out the


golden scepter that he may leave. But I


have not been called to come in unto the


king these 30 days. And he told to


Modiah Esther what? Then Modiah


commanded to answer Esther. Think not


with thyself that thou shall escape in


the king's house more than all the Jews.


Because now remember you are a Jew. When


he finds out you're also a Jew, he will


kill you too if he's really going to


kill all the Jews. For if thou


altogether holdest thy peace at this


time, then shall their enlargement and


deliverance arise to the Jews from


another place. But thou and thy father's


house shall be destroyed. And who


knoweth whether thou had come to the


kingdom for such a time as this? Then


Esther b them, return Modiah this


answer. Go gather together all the Jews


that are present in Shushan, and fast ye


for me, neither eat nor drink this three


days, night or day. I also and my


maidens will fast likewise, and so will


I go in unto the king, which is not


according to the law. And if I perish, I


perish. So the Miah went his way and did


according to all that Esther had


commanded


him. Did you see that? Chapter 5. Now it


came to pass on the third day that


Esther put on her royal par and stood in


the inner court of the king's house over


against the king's house. And the king


sat upon his royal throne in the royal


house over against the gate of the


house. And it was so when the king saw


Esther the queen standing in the court


that she obtained favor in his sight.


And the king held out to Esther the


golden scepter that was in his hand. So


Esther drew near and touched the top of


the scepter. So it happened the proper


way.


So because that two options if you enter


wrongly you can be killed if the king


does not ru that way accept. So they


pray to guarantee that result. Did it


work?


Okay. Then said the king unto her, what


will thou Queen Esther, what is thy


request? And it shall be given thee to


the half of the kingdom. That was not in


the bargain. It was just that I I should


meet this man and be able to talk to


this man when it's not the time to enter


into the king's court. But you see how


favor is working.


All right. And Esther answered, "If it


seem good unto the king, let the king


and hmon come this day." Don't just say


s Thank you my king. Thank you my love.


Thank you my darling. Thank you my


king. A man should die. A man should


die. That has been his trusted advice.


They don't just say things like that. So


you could see she even understood the


place of diplomacy. Don't just say hey


man or a man say hey a man should come


for a


feast. Let's eat


together. The a man that we are planning


for that we already know his plan


against this.


So and the king said cause Hmon to make


his that he may do as Esther has said.


So what did Esther say?


In verse four, if he seem unto the king,


let the king and Hmon come this day unto


the banquet that I have


prepared. Then the king said, "Cause


Hmon to make his that he may do as


Esther has said." So the king and Hmon


came to the banquet that Esther had


prepared. And the king said unto Esther


at the banquet of wine, "What is thy


petition and shall be granted thee? And


what is thy request even to the half of


my kingdom it shall be performed?" Then


answer this and said my petition and my


request is if I have found favors again


court is boiling now I instruct


you if I have found favor politeness


courty having already found favor why


you have to dance around he's not


dancing around if I have found favor in


thy sight of the king And if he please


the king to grant my petition and to


perform my request, let the king and


man come to the banquet that I shall


prepare for them and I will do tomorrow


as the king had said. So prolong the


matter be you see she's using her


femininity using sweetness persuasion


using everything. Why not just say that


was not part of but you could tell that


this may have been what she got in her


heart as the best


weight and it worked because hey man is


the king's


advisor and say somebody that is like


the king's right hand man just come and


say kill him or kill him kill


him say where did this woman come from


let's investigate our


past a man will speak up too and said


I've been I've been suspecting her for


some time too my king you know these


women you don't need to trust then


finish. Aha. All those kind of lines


will just be


dropping. Then went Hmon fought that day


joyful and with great and with a glad


heart. And when Hmon saw Modiah in the


king's gate that he stood not up nor


move for him, he was full of the nation


against Modiah. Nevertheless, Hmon


refrained himself. And when he went


home, he sent and called for his friends


and Zer his wife. And Hmon told them of


the glory of his riches and the


multitude of his children and all the


things we have foroted him. Hmon said,


"Mover Esther the queen did not did let


no man come in with the king onto the


banquet that she had prepared, but


myself and tomorrow am I invited also."


So he was bragging like it's only me and


the king. Nobody else is there now. So


you go take that too. Yet all this


athlet mean nothing so long as I see


Modiah the Jew sitting at the king's


gate.


Then said Zerich his wife and all his


friends, "Let a gallow be made of 50


cubit high, and tomorrow speak thou unto


the king, that Modiah may be hanged


there on." Then go thou in merrily with


the king unto the banquet, and the thing


pleased him. And he caused the gallow to


be


made. That's the same gallow that


we he prepared how he would die on that


night. could not the king sleep and


commanded to bring the book of records


of the chronicles. That same night see


is coincidence.


No, it's not coincidence. So that same


night the king could not sleep and he


commanded to bring the book of records


of the chronicles and they were read


before the king and it was found written


that Modiah had told of Bana and Terish


two of the king's chamberlings the


keeper of the door who sought to lay


hands on king Ahazeros and the king said


what honor and dignity had be done to


Modiah for this then said the king's


servant that minister said unto him


there is nothing done for him and the


king said who is in the court. Now Hmon


was come unto the outer court of the


king's house to speak unto the king to


hang Modiah of the gallows that he had


prepared for him. And the king's servant


said unto him, Behold, Hmon stands in


the court. And the king said, Let him


come in. So Hmon came, and the king said


unto him, What shall be done unto the


man whom the king delight to honor? Now


Hmon thought in his heart to whom the


king delight to do honor more than to


himself. And a man answered the king for


the man whom the king to honor let a


royal


par even royal paring


himself. And the king said to him and


make haste take the parare and the horse


as thou has said do even so to Modiah


the person that he is planning to kill.


God has shown me great kindness in a


strong


city. God has shown me great kindness.


The same person is the


one. Let nothing fail of all that thou


has spoken. Then took Hmon the par and


the horse and is the same person that


dressed Modiah and brought him on the


horse back through the


street and proclaimed before him touch


shall be done unto the man whom the king


died to honor. And Modiah came onto the


king's gate. But Aman hasted to his


house mourning and having his head


covered. Now this is the story is just


beginning. And a man told Zer, his wife,


all his friends, everything has befallen


him. Then said his wise


men, these wise men, I I I I I hope you


know these are not wise


men because for months they conjured for


when the stars were aligned, when is the


proper time that we can kill the


Israelites. It was that same season. You


will see the stories will not you go


back and read chapter 2, chapter 3,


chapter four before this chapter 4 that


we started. You'll see that they had


been plotting when is the best time when


does the stars align when will


everything work for our favor? It will


just look like pom pom pom and the


Israelites have been killed. this


Hmon because this man is from the


descendant of


Aag. Saul that


uh evil king that when Saul left some


portions of things that Samuel said to


obey and sacrifice is from that lineage.


This


Hmon all right from that lineage. And


while they were talking with him, sorry,


verse 13, look at that story. And Hmon


told these wise men and Zerich his


wife. Then said his wise men and Zerich


his wife unto him. If Modiah be of the


seed of the Jews before whom thou has


begun to fall, thou shall not prevail


against him. Oh, but thou shall surely


fall before him. That means is dying on


them small. He say if that man is really


a Jew, if he's really of the seed of


those people, the way things used to


work for them, this f go long, things


are going to be bad for us. And while


they were yet talking with him, came the


king traveling and hasted to bring Hmon


to the banquet that Es prepared because


remember I saw something else. Hmon was


trying to quickly block the king to now


the banquet had reached and the king and


Hmon came to the banquet and Esther the


queen and the king said unto Esther on


the second day at the banquet what is


thy petition queen Esther and it shall


be granted thee and what is the request


and it shall be performed even to the


half of the kingdom and Esther the queen


answered and said if I have found favor


in thy side oh king and if it please the


king let my life be given me at my


petition and my people at my request


For we are sold, I am my people, to be


destroyed, to be slain and to perish


or proper words. So that the effect will


be there to be destroyed to be slain and


to perish. If we have and we had been


sown not just the Israelites or the


Israelites, no my


people. So let the king commit first and


say, "Oh, your people shall be spared."


You say he's


Israelites can't a king do not take back


his


what? Understand that place of diplomacy


and say I'm


supernatural. I think by the


spirit not remove the place of doing


things


properly. That's why you should know how


things work normally. So you know this


how to say this, this how to go about


this.


And the king Ahazerus answered and uh


and said unto Esther the queen, who is


he and where is


he that does presum in his heart to do


so?


Kai and Esther said the adversary and


enemy is this wicked Hmon just point


hand. Then Hmon was afraid before the


king and the queen and the king arising


from the banquet of wine his ro went


into the palace garden. And you see that


the thing was a heart thing


immedi went


out and a man stood up for to make


request for his life to Esther the queen


and you know the way he's making request


like trying to hold her leg everything


joined for he saw that there was evil


determined against him by the king cuz


the king went out


like you know that kind


of kai kai kai kai kai


What's and the king returned out of the


palace guardian onto the place of the


banquet of wine and Hmon was falling


upon the


bed not trying to rape her. No, you know


there was the way the banquet is set up


there will be those cutting like then


they will be eating. So so she had maybe


of she went to go sit down on the bed.


Baba


followed where Esther was. Then said the


king, will he force the queen also


before me in the


house? As the word went out of the


king's mouth, they covered him face. He


not let the


word say


ah this is best with languages. Say you


have the way they say


abomination


as before he finish the abomination


language just bind him and they carry


the go


know unto the king behold also the


gallows 50 cubit high which man had made


from the Modiah who has spoken good for


the king stands in the house of Hmon and


the king said hang him give there. Hang


him there. Hang him there. So they hang


him on the


gallows. Then was a king ro pacified. Oh


boy. What a story.


Did you get it?


So in chapter three, Hmon was


promoted from verse 7 to verse 15. Hmon


will plot against the Jewish people. So


that's chapter 3 we did not read. See?


So it was in that chapter theory that


you see that you saw the whole


letter.


Hallelujah. Things to think


about. So it was in chapter two that


Modica had twarted the plot to kill


Aaseros the king. So 10 chapters,


beautiful read. And you see that


beautiful read. Notice how the


supernatural and the natural were


working


together


brilliantly. And guess what? That whole


book, God is not mentioned once.


G O you will not find it any reference


that you you'll find G O you won't find


one reference that has G O where they


reference God but yet God is in


view that's how you are intelligence in


the king's


court Jesus


Christ my Lord and Savior let us sack


you now be


intelligent and yet there's all the God


factor must know how to walk in the


king's palace, how to sit among the


great. And that's why some Christians


never get to get those kind of push,


those kind of of of


contact. You say, "Oh, for you guys,


it's just favor. It's just, oh, it's


just favored." No, there's the place of


favor. There's also the place of being


smart, being intelligent, being


wise. Hallelujah.


Genesis


41 where Joseph is brought out of the


prison. Learning something?


from verse


8. And it came to pass in the morning


that his spirit was troubled, and he


sent and called for all the magicians of


Egypt, and all the wise men thereof. And


Pharaoh told them his dream, and there


was none that could interpret that


dream. Then came the chief unto Pharaoh,


and said, I do remember my fault this


day. So what looked like he forgot


Joseph but that day remembered his fault


that Pharaoh was wrought with his


servants and put me in word in the


prison in the captain of the guard's


house both me and the chief


baker and we dreamed a dream in one


night I and


he remember the baker is dead though the


butter. So we dreamed each man according


to interpretation of his dream. And


there was with us a young man, an Hebrew


servant to the captain of the guard. And


we told him and interpreted to us our


dream. To each man according to his


dream. He did


interpret. And it came to pass as he


interpreted to us. So it was me he


restored unto my office, and him he


hanged. Then Pharaoh sent and called


Joseph and they brought him hastily out


of the dungeon and Joseph shaved himself


and changed his raignment and came in


onto Pharaoh. They didn't have to tell


him that one. You don't see the king


anyhow so that you say is this person


they cannot amount to much just fine


give him two bag of gold let him get out


of there that he could have turned like


that. You will notice how we also


interpreted the dream. And Joseph


answered Pharaoh, saying, "It is not in


me. God shall give Pharaoh an answer of


peace." And Pharaoh said unto Joseph,


"In my dream, behold, I stood upon the


bank of the river."


So John verse 25. And Joseph said unto


Pharaoh, the dream of Pharaoh is one.


God has showed Pharaoh what he's about


to do. See say God has shown favor as if


favor is having both of them are having


the same God understanding


communication because he's going to


interpret it and God is God of all you


that's why you must have superior have


proper doct doctrinal persuasion God is


God of all whatever that person is


worshiping is nonsense so you can bring


God in because you want to achieve


something and you are not lying God


because there's God because I'm being


brought in for preservation so we should


say


God. Behold, there come seven years of


great plenty throughout. So he explained


that


dream and for that the dream was double


unto Pharaoh twice. It is because the


thing is established by God and God will


shortly bring it to pass. Now therefore


see inter see wisdom. This point was not


part of the dream. Verse 33. Now


therefore, let Pharaoh look


out a man


discrete. Did you see it? Discrete.


That's the word discerning. Discrete and


wise. Why is there a skillful can


interpret


things? Set him over the land of Egypt.


Let Pharaoh do this and let him appoint


officers on over the land and take up


the fifth part of the land of Egypt into


the seven plenteous year. Say ah this


wisdom was just downloaded on him.


Nah remember Joseph has always excelled


in every task given to


him in his father's house. He he knew


how to take care of the father's things.


when he got to Portifer's house, he knew


how he was promoted. He always So, it's


that same managerial skill that he


brought in here now and knew that this


is the best way this can be


done. Forces of time and chance are


favoring him. But this is by not by


coincidence now, but by divine


orchestration. and let them that's why


we say may the forces of life favor


you see he's just preaching so we cannot


say amen now your life and your business


let favor do this and let him appoint


the officers over the land to take up


the fifth part of the land and let them


gather all the food of those good years


that come and lay up corn under the hand


of Pharaoh and let them say can I an NBA


fan. She he mentioned you say you know


something show how skillful you


are how you see exe which is the same


thing in the natural execution is king.


He he said the strategy but does not


mean that they know how to carry it out.


say all the many wisdom sometimes in the


natural when I do some things people say


oh you are giving out too much


information all that information not the


person use there is a skill for using it


that's why execution is king in business


it's not I have this great idea


everybody has great idea what is the


execution game so you protect your


execution game you protect how you are


able to


deliver only ministry we don't do that


and we say everything because there's no


secret there and you protect your


execution how you are able to think it


through and this is the best way to go


about it so he said everything said let


them gather all the food of those years


that come up and lay up corn under the


hand of let them keep the food how are


they going to keep it is still missing


and that food shall be for store in the


land against and this thing was good in


the eyes of favor in the eyes of all his


servant and favor said unto his servant


Can we find? So because of the way the


thing is standing the thing is sound


standing too wise. Can the king say can


we find such a one as this? A man in


whom the spirit of God is. And Pharaoh


said unto Joseph, for as much as God has


showed thee all these, there is none so


discrete and wise as thou art. Thou


shalt be over my house according unto


thy word, and shall gather all my


people, and


and thou shalt be over my house. And


according onto thy word shall all my


people be ruled. Only that was not part


of what Joseph said. That's how you know


that favor was still added to it. Only


in thy throne will I be g than thou.


What is happening to the king in one


night? Just created a new position that


does not exist.


and just hand over all your power and


just say me I'm just here I'm just going


to be chilling and relaxing you just be


running the whole show prime minister


role is


born and Pharaoh said unto Joseph see I


have said thee over all the land of


Egypt and Pharaoh took off his ring from


his hand and put it upon Joseph hand and


araid him in vesture of fin and put a


gold chain about his neck and made him


right in the second chariot which he


had. And they cried before him, bowed


the knee, and he made him ruler over the


land of


Egypt. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I


am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no


man lift up his hand or foot in all the


land of


Egypt. And Pharaoh called Joseph


name Zap Napani.


treasury of the glorious


rest and he gave him to wife


as you can just say for God's


sake just gave him all right let no


devil speak all right let


no dry gene people


There's also next season


Abby we come


again but my children will not support


that club


s and he gave him to


wife and


s the daughter of piperah priest of own


and Joseph went out over all so there's


nobody you cannot manage with wisdom


Joseph did not argue because if


Oh king, oh king, they give me wife.


They give me


wife. Well, there's nothing with wisdom


you can't possess.


And the king will not have given him an


evil person because if not the king to


to the best of the


king's say by wisdom a house is built.


So if the man is wise, there's no woman


can't


manage. That was that was that's a


lot because he say gave him to be wife.


So it was by the king's


suggestion and Joseph was 30 years old


when he stood before Pharaoh, king of


Egypt. Oh boy. So he say, "Oh, it's it's


it's it's just favor. It's just this.


It's just But you can see the mix


again. Can see the mix." Don't remove


the place of diligence. Had Joseph not


been a diligent person all these years,


he would not have known how to be


diligent overnight.


See that word took him from the prison


and put him in the palace. One word from


God will take you from the prison and


put you in the palace. I came to


prophesy to five


persons. Touch your


neighbor. And you see all of those


things they say be diligent. be


diligent. There are people I could tell


could have risen higher but they


refused. They didn't know when to make


the adjustment. Lord said to me some


years back I have desire to increase


you but you are not playing in the right


field. You can only get hundreds of


thousands.


Shift your gaze here because I have


desired to pour you out a


blessing but you don't have the


structure the framing for it and how you


currently are going. So twitch it like


this. Twitch it like this. And twitch it


like


this. I'm using KJB language. And I


arose with all


haste and did as my Lord beed


me. See it's just of it's not. Oh it's


not. It's not. And begin to do this for


people like this. begin to see don't


remove the place of being led by the


spirit of God. Don't remove the place


of be skillful like this since you


naturally like again one of those times


the Lord said to me because I was


praying oh I don't like since you


naturally like to give a 110 to anything


that you do and you want to always see


that things work to the best carry the


same approach use it for these kinds of


people and I said I only know one person


I will cause you to meet many how I


began to be uh some of them I serve them


some of them I found a way to say I do


this for free for you and you'll notice


that with me you won't suffer loss say


you mean that can you do that all right


let me let's get to


work I didn't just get to know


billonians like


that and of three billion that I have


close business ties with mean


supernatural but there was something


that I did something that I did that is


ensuring don't remove it to say it's not


by all those things just just the word


is spoken is spoken and funny enough I


like I shared with you guys one time one


they don't know that I'm a pastor one


now found out I say


hey I was watching one video I saw


And I was wondering we really even have


those videos where we prophesy. I saw


you say you are not a man of God. You


are a


real man of God. Say you are a real one.


Oh, you have


I you have that's how I say you have I,


you have ear, you are a real man of God.


No wonder you just say it like this. It


will work like this. But at last it was


not prophecy. So it was business


strategy. Why is it? But he have said it


and I needed a way to preach. So I just


agreed. But it was business something


that I was saying. There's the part


where of the supernatural but not the


not be one there. But since he


highlighted that


no finally my opportunity to preach the


gospel and oh boy he believed. See


there's a place of doing things the


right way. It's a place of doing things


the right way.


I've been given three million gift from


uh and say uh just because of your


integrity that you don't want your walls


to fall to the ground. You are an


amazing person. Just take


this just take


this. Just take


this. Another I can tell you stories


upon stories. Just be diligent. say,


"Oh, just uh if you ever need this, I'll


just be the one to support it. I'll be


the one to do


this. If you ever need a funding of 1


billion, call


me one


day. Don't mind the rich is taking from


the poor." So sounding like are you did


this work for you and the masses? Why do


you have this hatred for the rich and


you want to


be? It's the same thing say don't mind


they want to jam you with their car.


Have you ever seen what people go


through that drive? You see how much


some people are very silly they don't


used to leave you horn. You will be


afraid to horn say if I horn this horn


will not be thinking that I'm trying to


form that I have car. No it's so that


will not jam you. Leave the road. Get


out the road. Get out. Get out the road.


It's


not they will be doing they have


car be hating where you are trying to


get to. You will not get there. Love


where you are going and you will get


there. Amen.


Chable moment. Recently I was doing some


things in a banker that nobody has their


account number. uh and I was sitting


down and the uh because I've come to the


bank more than once in recent times


because of certain things that I'm doing


and so they had known me and for God's


sake I have a presence that shows that


I'm doing well in life and I sent n so I


mean you can obviously tell that the


person is doing well in life so I mean


I'm trying to give you the proper story


so how you get it so the security people


have he me everybody's healing me and


they already know that I'm not a boy, a


guy. So they already know that this is


straight money. This is


not so it's clear. So I was in the bank


and I was sitting down normally because


they will give me such a preference


though I do not have such close ties


like my main banks that I do things. So


I I was sitting and there was an old


woman that that was uh standing by my


side. I just got up and said she should


sit down and I'm a pastor number one. I


have influence in society for God's


sake. I mean when I came back the


customer care person


said cuz she was seeing what she was


seeing with her computer cuz I had given


her you are very humble


s


like people that are like you


sir don't do like that. I said no no no


no I I would I would I would stand I


can't be sitting and an old woman is


standing I was not raised like that say


ah


hey only for me to come out from the


bank and I saw police come were carrying


the woman and the woman say thank you my


son no thank you my


son yeah that's the part of the story I


did not mention


You can cash out on those


things. I always meet people twice.


Don't


worry. I always meet people twice. I


always do.


Oh, this is I'm giving you wisdom. There


are people like that. I said has you


were that brother that time. I said yes.


Say oh what an amazing


person. If you ever need


this you say I just like those kind of


stories are more like this. Be a


honorable person. Just be a decent human


being. Just be a decent human being.


Just be a decent human being. I think it


hurts nothing to be amazing. be like


that. I choose to be like that. I choose


to be like that. And she wasn't even


dressed so well. So maybe it's her


children. Maybe I don't want to think


anything. But I didn't do it because I


knew any of those


[Music]


things. Everything join.


Hallelujah.


Preparation. Do things well. Be


honorable. Be godly. All those things it


does not matter. It matters.


Treat people with kindness. Treat people


with honor. Treat people


properly. Amen. Not just in the name of


Jesus. Oh, I walk in favor. Oh, I walk


in miracles. Oh, I No, no, no, no, no.


Add this part also.


Now there are many persons here who hate


their boss and they want to make


progress in that office.


And many persons who


hate alas not be so we


do. Hallelujah.


I walk by the spirit of God.


I'm led by the spirit of God.


Amen. Amen. Lord, by your favor you have


made my mountain to stand strong. Stand


on your feet. I walk by the favor of


God. I live by the favor of God.


But that favor will come at a price.


That favor will come with certain be


wise. Be kind, be compassionate, be not


our normal


virtues. Those normal virtues have come


true for us.


have done business with people in the


real estate sector and they said oh I'll


take 5 million off


it that you cared so much that your word


will


stand what is everything say I've not


seen anybody who want to suffer great


loss to the so that their word will not


fail say no no no no let's just take


that money off


it I can tell you stories upon stories


mindblowing stories


Just do the right thing. Be honorable.


Be kind. Be patient. All those things


that you say is fruit of the spirit not


get used. It has use. It has use


everywhere in your life. It has use


everywhere in your life. In fact, look


at how that lady landed a good husband.


You say it does not matter. That's why


you have landed the one that want to


kill you. So it was just watching those


why largeness of heart. No. Who gives


water to the animal? She fetched also.


For man that you don't


know. For man that you don't know. You


never can tell the moment. Always do


the always be that honorable. Always be


that kind


that do things


well. I'm led by the spirit of God


because the day the things come is the


same thing. Some of you people would


have wanted to help you say no I cannot


give anybody part ownership of my


business. So no I cannot structure my


business like this. No I cannot do this


like this. No I


cannot be led by the spirit of God.


Everything say borrow me 20 million.


It's not every time that people will


borrow. Why not give people you know


they think down to and maybe that's what


God is telling you but lie. There are


times you do that. They are


oh those companies that grow with


investors that become so big they don't


have 12


head they have two start somewhere


follow those set it like this know


sometimes naturally I even ask some


questions how many revenue streams do


you have he say two which serious


entrepreneur have two revenue streams


shouldn't even have five you should not


have 10 should have above


10 it may be just man service twitch the


service such a way that 10 ways money


can come out for me you know you don't


need money say no money is the root of


all evil money is not the root of which


kind of did you you miss your Bible


study the love of money which is aaries


is the root of all evil not money is not


the root of any evil money is even the


reason why there's evil not having money


is why there's evil so ah no money is


good it answers gives you


options amen And I'll do things well.


I'll be honorable. I'll be honorable.


I'll do things well. I'll do things


well. I want you to leave this meeting


this evening with this


consciousness. I know the place of


favor. I know the place of God's


supernatural help. And many of you have


got no supernatural help. And you have


lost it by your carelessness, by being


rude, by being stubborn. I


can be honorable. You never know where


you'll meet


people. You never know where you'll meet


people. You never know where you'll meet


people. Lift your hands and just pray in


the Holy Ghost. Go ahead. Just pray in


the Holy Ghost. Thank you.