Lord again in this service this morning


we ask and we receive insight and


illumination into your word we know that


again as your word is taught doubts our


resolve understanding is imparted into


our hearts again in this service we ask


that the things that ought to be said


will be said the things that ought to be


done will be done to the praise and


glory of your name we declare that we


are built


up transformed by the power of your word


this morning and our lives are open for


healings, miracles, deliverances in the


name of Jesus.


Amen.


Amen. God bless you. Have your


seats. Unseen forces we delve right into


the matter.


Uh we've been studying around the


context that we being wise and strong


with his


power. Being wise and strong with his


power. Being wise and strong with his


power. I'm to be wise. I'm to be strong


with the power of God. Amen. I'm to be


wise. I'm to be strong with the power of


God. And it's our major slant in this


new part of unseen forces. And the very


first time we taught on unseen forces,


we talked around understanding your


spiritual authority. Now we are


mentioning that authority, but we want


to be more focused on being wise and


strong with his power. I will see that


results in our life. Really basically


how we can engage those forces to work


for our good. Amen. And if there are


negative forces, how we can bring them


under and ensure that nothing is


impeding or stopping our progress.


Amen.


[Music]


Hallelujah. Amen. Colossians chapter 1


and we will


begin Colossians chapter 1 and we'll


read from vers 12. Giving thanks unto


the father which has made us meat to be


partakers of the inheritance of the


saints in light who had delivered us


from the power of darkness. Underline


the word. We saw this on Wednesday. He


has delivered us from the powers of


darkness and has translated us into the


kingdom of his dear son. We have been


delivered from the powers of darkness. I


have nothing to do with darkness. I'm in


the light.


Hallelujah. And has translated us into


the kingdom of his dear son. I'm in the


kingdom of God now. So Satan has no


claim to me. no claim to my soul, my


life, my person. He has no claim to me.


In whom we have redemption through his


blood. Verse 14, even the forgiveness of


sin. I wish you got that. In whom we


have redemption. In whom we have not


going to have, we have redemption


through his blood. The forgiveness of


sin. The forgiveness of sin. The


deliverance from sin. Hallelujah. Who is


the image? That's Jesus Christ who is


the image of the invisible


God. So this is the exact


representation of God. So when you say


how does God physically look like? He


look like all humanity but he looks


exactly like the man Christ Jesus. Did


you get it? Man, mankind is his image.


So this Colossians 1:15 you will see how


Hebrews 1:3 now says the express image


of his person he changes the word


instead of using the word


u


icon he now uses the word character in


Hebrews 1:3 because in other words there


is no difference this is exactly God


this is not uh one of the pictures of


God one of the No, no. This is God in


representation. So where you represent


yourself, where you are. So it's not


like I sent somebody to represent me.


No, this is me in


representation. That's Jesus Christ. So


there's a difference between that. Why


is God the only begotten son of God? The


unique monogenist, the unique son of


God. They say no Jesus is not the only


begotten son of God anymore. We are now


the son of God. The two truths are not


fighting. Jesus is still the only


begotten son of God because he is the


incarnate God that became a man and that


does not affect him from being first


begotten. Get your theology right. They


are not fighting. It is the only


begotten work that makes us today to be


sons of God. And we are not sons of God


the way Jesus is a son of God. Jesus is


a son of God not as a created being but


son of God as God. Amen. We are not sons


of God as God. We are sons of God as


created by God. Are you following?


There's a big difference between that.


So don't mix it up. So when he says only


begotten is the word monogenicis which


means unique is unique. It's God that is


a man. Are you following? And that's not


that cannot be said for any other human


being. Hallelujah. So Colossians 1:15 it


says who is the image of the visible God


the first born the first begotten the


firstborn of every creature. So the


pattern, the protocol, the the pattern,


the specimen, what God was looking for


in all creation is that all creation


will reflect him, will look like like


God and that God in that essence will


now be look like Christ in the truest


form because he says that's what God is


looking for in all creation.


Then he says in verse 16, for by him by


Christ Jesus. So Colossians explanation


of Christ here. If this does not look


like God or God, then you don't have God


because he calls Jesus God. So if Jesus


is not God by all this explanation, I


don't know which other verse can show


Jesus is God. He says for by him were


all things created. So he calls him the


creator God that are in that are in


heaven that are in the earth, visible


and invisible. So he says they were all


created by


him whether they be thrones or dominion


or principality or power. All things


were created by him and


all things were created by him and for


him. He is before all things and by him


all things


what? He is the head of the body, the


church, who is the beginning, the


firstborn from the dead, that in all


things he might have the prayer


mininess. So notice he says, for by him


were all things created that are in


heaven, that are in the earth. So there


are things in the heavens, things in the


earth. And he says, visible and


invisible, whether they be thrones or


dominity or power, all things were


created by him. And for him, hallelujah,


is the head of the body, the church, who


is the beginning, the firstborn from the


dead, that in all things he might have


the preeminence.


So as much as he is the creator he in


all things he would have preeminence an


actual preeminence like we said or


another phrase will be a manifest


preeminence not preeminence as the


creator but preeminence as being


woripped and that is a fact because


every knee shall bow and every tongue


shall confess Jesus is lord ultimately


not just now even to the end of the


world every knee will bow. Even those


that are going to be destroyed and


removed from the earth will still


acknowledge his lordship. Amen. So


that's the focus in that Ephesians one


there. And just add verse 20 to the mix


because of the Ephesians 1 789 parallel


as well. And having made peace through


the blood of his cross to reconcile all


things unto himself, all things in


heaven, all things on there. when he


says all things in that context always


add in heaven and on the earth. Did you


get it? That's why he says by him I say


whether they be things in earth or


things in heaven just in case the people


are not following. Paul likes to be very


clear. So I say whether things in heaven


or in the earth. So he reconciles it. So


they all come together in Christ. So we


now have Jesus as the heaven and earth


man. as the heaven and earth place. The


place where heaven and earth intersect.


I'm in Christ Jesus today. I function in


heaven and earth at the same time. It is


such a beauty to be able to function in


the seen and unseen world at the same


time. I don't have to leave the earth to


function in heaven. I don't have to be


no I can be on the earth and function in


heaven. And remember not have heaven as


a planet. We have had to debunk that


again and again. It is not a Bible


study. There's nowhere in the Bible you


see heaven taught as a place outside the


earth in the sense of outside this


world. What we mean by the word earth


there no this world. Biblical cosmology


Genesis 1 verse1 in the beginning God


created the heaven and the earth. So


biblical cosmology is heaven and earth


together. The world that God created,


the world that God created is the


visible world here and the invisible


world here. That's why you see the two


interplay. You see the


two always engaging each other that one


cannot be without the other. It shows


you again why the marriage supper of the


lamb again we see the marriage of heaven


and earth because they are they look


like they are ped apart. The male and


the female look like they are posed


apart. But the male and the female were


made for each other. That's how the


heaven and the earth may look different


just like the male is male. The female


is female different by that structure.


However, they were made for each other.


That's how heaven and earth were made


for each other. And ultimately, that's


how it will be forever. Not just for us,


but for all humanity. Not just for us,


the church. I mean, but soon is going to


be that reality for all the earth. And


we will now see the very physical


transformation that we have always


prayed for that we have always wanted.


Amen.


Hallelujah. So Jesus created everything


and he calls him the creator God. Look


at Isaiah uh


40. Let's do Isaiah


40 1. Uh no 40. Let's do 40. We'll read


all of them. Isaiah 40. Flip. Flip,


flip, flip, flip. Isaiah chapter 40.


Isaiah


Jeremiah. Isaiah


40 from verse


21. Have you not known? Have you not


heard? Has it not been told you from the


beginning? Have you not understood? from


the foundations of the earth. From the


founding of the earth. Did you get it?


It is he. This is how to uh praises for


the great I am. It is he that seated


upon the cycle of the earth. Why use the


word cycle of the earth? I know say that


upon the spherical. Don't worry yourself


about that. The ancient men had the idea


of a globe. Whether you today you say is


fica is is round leave down one that's


not the


issue because their depiction had it


like a world tree. So ancient men they


are not today's world view is


scientific. That world view was


supernatural. So everything was


interpreted supernaturally. So this


phrase makes so much sense when you look


understand that whole depiction of the


world tree


uh did you get it? So around cycle and I


think I've shown you that picture when


we're doing so we'll do it again on


Wednesday. We just arrange all of those


pictures and project them so that you


see it. It is he that sits upon the


cycle of the earth. So you understand


that the audience were not confused.


They understand that cycle of the earth


is literally in their world view. So


it's us that are wondering sit on the


cycle of the earth. What does that mean?


Because it is he that sits upon the


cycle of the earth and the inhabitants


thereof are as grasshoppers that


stretcheth out the heavens as a cotton.


Does that look like it's a temple? Like


a cotton. There's a house and spreadth


them out as a tent to dwell in. So it's


like a house. So that's why we say the


heaven and the earth is like a house. It


is structured and layered like a house.


Understand that? Structured and layered


like a house or a temple. That bringeth


the princes to nothing. He maketh the


judges of the earth as vanity. Look at


it. So it says before God people who are


to be feared, who are full of power and


nothing. You understand? These are the


things that renews our mind. Yay, they


shall not be planted. Yeah, they shall


not be sown. Yeah, their stock shall not


even take root in the earth. and he


shall also blow upon them, and they


shall wither, and the white wind shall


take them away as stubble. To whom then


will ye liken me? Or shall I be equal?


Seaeth the Holy One. Lift up your eyes


on high, and behold, who had created


these things that bringeth out their


host by number? The word host there is


supernatural being. So, he created them.


He's the one that created them in their


numbers.


He called them all by names. So he has


called them out by names. So he gave


every supernatural being function the


word name by the greatness of his might.


He did that by the greatness of his


might. For that he is strong in power


for that he is strong in


power not one faileth.


Why sayest thou, oh Jacob, and speakest,


oh Israel? My way is hid from the Lord,


and my judgment is passed over from my


God. Verse 28, he goes back again and he


says, Hast thou not known? Hast thou not


heard? Has that the everlasting God, the


Lord, he calls him Yahweh, the creator


of the ends of the earth, fainted none,


neither is he weary. There is no


searching of his understanding. He


giveth power to the faint and to them


that have no might he even increases


strength. Even the youth shall fend. So


even the very young people they still


get tired. Children they look like they


have boundless energy. They still get


tired and be weary. And the young men


which is now the youth. So old English.


So the youth there is where you say the


younger than the youth. The young men is


today's understanding of what we call


youth. Did you get it? All right. So the


youth in that when use the word youth


don't read it in today's English this


youth here and the youth here is more


younger. So you say you can say


adolesence that's why it's calling youth


here and the


lads shall faint and be weary and the


youth the young men shall utterly fall.


That's why we study original language


not to be ex not for the fun of it but


to see what the words actually mean in


how they are translated because they


were not speaking English when they


wrote these things. But they that wait


upon the Lord shall renew their


strength. They shall mount up with wings


as eagle. They shall run and not be


weary. They shall walk and not fend. So


is this forces? So with God there is a


difference. They shall run and not be


weary. So normally they should be but


God is helping them because it is the


Lord who


giveth power to defend and to them that


have no mighty increases strength. Verse


29 then he says the youth faint and be


weary. The young man utterly forth but


they that wait on the Lord


shall renew their strength. They shall


mount up with wings as eagles. They


shall run and not be weary. They shall


walk and not f. So God is called the


creator God. Amen. And every time you


see this kind of praises, he always


brings in unseen beings. He call them by


name. Come on. Verse


26. He bringeth out their host by


number. He bringeth out their host by


numbers. That's the very same thing we


have again in Psalm 147, but we won't


get there now because I'll just quote it


for you. He tell the numbers of the


stars. He called them all by their


names. Great is the Lord and of great


power. His understanding is infinite.


All right. So the same as I had go to


chapter


41 42:5 sorry uh thus seeth God the Lord


he that created the heavens that


stretched them out notice why because


that's majorly the building structure


you build tent. You stretch out a tent.


So that's why you say stretch them out.


So you see that the heavens is built


like a


house, not physical sky for God's


sake. Physical sky is the is the heaven


physical heaven over the physical earth.


Uh-huh. So


that the heaven in the Bible, I've told


you heaven has more than one application


and I've given you the 8 n application


of the word heaven. So when you read the


word heaven in the Bible, heaven is used


to explain where God is. You say, "Oh,


where was he before he created heaven?"


Come off it now. It's just language.


heaven. The Hebrew word shamin is now


being used to explain where God was


before he even created the heaven. Why?


Because of what the word means. So don't


get


overly no where was God before he


created heaven? He was


uh calm down. As much as the whole


excitedness in preaching can make you


sound sometimes sound unintelligent when


you are not reasoning what you are


saying. Where was he? It is called


heaven in the Bible. Of course, where he


was, you can call it he was in himself.


He was in a realm of whatever that is.


The scripture now calls that


heaven. Are you following? Because


heaven, the original meaning of the word


heaven shines from the word shame. That


just mean high. That which is high and


lofty, that which is above and beyond.


So that's how you explain where God is.


Now God is in a high high and beyond. Is


that not is that not simple enough? I


say no no no you can't tell


me it's the same thing. So it was where


he was before he created the heaven and


the earth. But now the use of the so so


many scriptures says God in heaven. Why


not leave it like that? Say no. So every


time we are going to say God was in me


before he made me. How does that sound?


If if we are going to be intelligent


since you don't want to be in heaven,


you want to be inside of me. So how does


that also work? before he made


me. So all of them will always have


because we will use created things to


explain the creator. We will use the


seen word to explain the unseen world.


It's just normal communication. It helps


for understanding.


So God is in heaven. Our father who art


in heaven, God who sees from heaven, who


hears from heaven and all that that is


mentioned.


Second thing we see is that heaven is


used to explain


where supernatural beings


are. Supernatural beings are in


heaven. Whether you say good or bad,


they are in heaven. Heaven. Spiritual


wickedness in heavenly places. Angels


from heaven. An angel from heaven. An


angel Gabriel from heaven. Angel Michael


from heaven. You see those phrases? An


angel was sent from heaven to the Virgin


Mary and heaven. And the angels from


heaven, the host from heaven. You see


that phrase is used a lot in scriptures.


Supernatural beings are in heaven. Are


in the unseen realm. And that heaven now


is now layered. The heavens are layered.


Not all the heavens are in Christ Jesus.


We are in the heavenlies in Christ


Jesus. Because the heavens are layered.


Because the heavens have been polluted.


Because it's not a planet away, but the


unseen realm has been polluted with


evil. Because man's cooperation with


supernatural means polluted the unseen


realm. So there is now darkness in the


unseen realm as well as much as there is


light. And God is over and beyond that.


However, he interfaces with the angels


in that place that we now call the light


of heaven or the the negative


supernatural are in the darkness of the


heaven. Remember


not sky unseen realm. Always have that


in your mind. Unseen realm is that okay?


So that's heaven. Unseen realm the what


you say the spirit word. That's how the


Bible explains the word heaven. So


heaven is explained the Bible as unseen


realm, the supernatural realm, the


invisible world, the spirit world, the


spiritual world, any phrase that you you


get. So because when you type it like


that, you won't see it in the Bible.


When you type unseen realm, you won't


see it like that. R E A L M. You won't


see it in KJV now 1611 for God's sake.


You won't see RAM.


So some modern translations today may


put that but you won't see it in old KJV


or the revised one in 190 that are the


common Bibles we have


today that still have the sh but not


1611 again you see it in the first page


of your Bible if you ever read those


things. So all of those Bibles will not


have unseen


realm. So there's an unseen world, an


unseen realm. Anyone that you are


comfortable with, there's a spirit world


or a spiritual world. There's a


spiritual world or a supernatural world


or a supernatural realm. And that is


where supernatural beings


are. And God is higher than that. That's


why Paul uses a phrase, I knew a man


caught up to the third heaven. He uses


the word because the heavens are


layered that one is higher than the


other. So in fact in the praises for God


in the revelation of Elon where he says


he's higher than where that great


preacher today says higher than the


highest God is stronger daddy my daddy


said you know it is the contemplation of


that almightiness that has possessed


that dear minister of God so much and


when you see that revelation of where


God speaks of himself as Lelon the most


high God they will see higher than the


heavens higher than is higher. There's


all those higher than higher than is to


explain that he's the most high. For him


to be most high, he has to be higher.


All right?


So the Hebraisim not just Paul creating


that phrase. Hebraisim understands that


and calls it oh the third heaven. The


first heaven being the normal heaven of


interplay. The second heaven which is


where supernatural beings are. and the


third heaven which is uh where God is.


So that's how it is structured in


Hebraism which Paul believes his


audience understood why he didn't have


to say this is what third heaven means


because again like I told you you must


sit where they sat. So the he's not


teaching them what they have not heard


before the phrase third heaven is common


in their world


view. So the first heaven is the heaven


of interplay where we say I'm


functioning in the unseen realm. the


which some persons like to call the


skies but abba and it's not that but the


Hebrew people understand as the skies


but when they are saying the skies there


they're talking about on because they


are seen it but they use it like far


above beyond so the proper word for it


will be the heaven that we interplay


with a lot as it were engagement so when


you say I'm doing something in the same


realm then the second is where


supernatural beings are then your third.


So just to explain it now I've seen all


manner of write ups that say oh seven


heaven 10 heavens anyone if you have 10


then God must be in the 10th one because


that's the meaning of is higher than all


of that. So for lack of a phrase they


now say he's in the third heaven. Now


that is not what the biblical writers


are teaching. But that's how the


understanding of God in that language


Hebrew language. Hebraism is how the he


the language indigenous to the Hebrew


people and how they understand things in


their language is what we call heism is


m. So that means we are studying how the


Hebrew people understand their language


and use it to relate with different


other words or concepts. So and there


how they use their consonants their


voice or even the use of paragraphs or


uh the English language for example is


very volal I will do this but the Hebrew


language is cognitive you have to be


intelligent you have to think it's not


so you have to discern volition vition


is not seen at the surface vition is


discerned so once I've lost spoken twice


have we heard it's that same double you


have to think again you have to salah


you have to pause think you have to


ruminate these things again and again


because it will open up


so they will now write


the God allow something to happen it


will be written in causative why because


of how their language is because their


language is


cognitive notional so the English


language is if you say you will do just


say you will do it is what so they will


teach you tenses of


willingness I still remember I was


taught that in SS1 tenses of willingness


so the the English language is very loud


on


vition I'm going to do this but the


Hebrew does not structure like that so


you can write and funny enough it is


still within the English language when


you say um why do you allow that baby to


fall because the person was wanting care


of the baby. So the baby fell in their


hand. You are going to hold them


responsible. You and it will look like


as if they are the ones that push the


baby. But you say why you allow that


baby to fall. So what you have done now


is exactly how the Hebrew people write.


They


write that h they write causative for


permissive. So since God knows all


things that happen and he is sovereign.


So they write him that he must be aware


of everything. He must be in charge of


everything. So they're not saying he's


actively the one doing it. No. But we


can't remove him from the issue because


he's there. He's aware. So you now see


within the same context like I've shown


you before, you now see


contradiction where I will I will pass


and I will destroy. Oh, Exodus chapter


12, the Passover story. Then in the same


chapter, he say I will not allow the


destroying angel. Which one are you


doing, Lord? Are you the one destroying


or you are the one not allowing the


destroying angel? Now nobody's confused


in their timeline because they


understand that it is that God power is


going to be seen in their deliverance.


They are going to be casualties. So they


will write in the causative as if God is


doing everything because it is his power


that is going to be made known through


those whole events. So but we want to be


particular in our investigative work


who is holding the


knife. So and a good detective a good


forensic detective knows that if the


detective himself is holding the mother


weapon does not mean that he committed


the crime. So many times God holds the


mother weapons to investigate what is


happen. Even God himself is not looking


like ah because they snap the picture


like that look like God is the one with


the mother weapons. So he committed the


crime. No, it is in the context. Upon


proper examination, you realize that no,


he's not. God actively who did this, but


God is always in his protection. But


when people reject his protection, he's


aware of what is happening to them and


is letting it happen because they have


already said no to his helping them and


he's not going to violate or force


himself on


anybody. So they will now write


everything as causative. Now this is an


aside different from what I'm teaching


but you see a lot of those phrases in


Genesis to Malachi which is why many


persons can't interpret Genesis to


Malachi because they don't understand


how the Hebrew people use


words. I have done these studies before


even in some Bible school meetings but


since I have mentioned this this is just


a pure deviation.


Uh there's this Jeremiah. Let's let's


look that


text. There's this text in Jeremiah that


comes to mind every time we talk around


this. This is not on my note at all.


just


to Jeremiah 13.


Jeremiah 13 and verse


13. Then shalt thou say unto them, thus


sayeth the Lord, behold, I will fill all


the inhabitants of this land, even the


kings that sit upon David's throne, and


the priests and the prophets and all the


inhabitants of Jerusalem with


drunkenness. You see it, I will. Now,


always remember, there will never be a


Hebrew word for that will. Like I told


you, you will not find it. If you check


the original, you will never see a


Hebrew word because it is English. They


are translated to the English language.


So they are the one writing the will. So


you already are angry. How can they be?


Why is God doing this? There's no Hebrew


word for will


there. But as you read the context, you


now see what happened that is making it


say and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem


with drunkenness. So wow. at the surface


look like God is filling people with


drunkenness. I will dash them one


against another, even the fathers and


the sons together, say the Lord. I will


not pity nor spare nor have mercy, but


destroy


them. Year ye and give be not proud, for


the Lord have spoken.


So you go on. So but let's read before


that for verse one. Just this is


different but just put this as an aside


on your notes for your intelligent


writing. Uh a quick study on cognitive


and causative uh tenses in the Bible. So


it helps you. It's like I'm giving you a


theological master class for free. All


right. Thus here the Lord unto me. Go


and get thee a linen ghetto and put it


upon thy loins and put it not in the


water. So I got a ghetto according to


the word of the Lord and put it on my


loins. And the word of Lord came unto me


the second time saying take the ghetto


that thou has got which is upon thy


loins and arise. Go to Euphrates and


hide it there in a hole of the rock. So


I went and hid it by Euphrates as the


Lord commanded me. And it came to pass


after many days that the Lord spake unto


me, arise, go to Euphrates, and take the


ghetto from things which I commanded to


hide there. Then I went to Euphrates and


digged and took the ghetto from the


place where it was where I had hid it.


And behold, the ghetto was mad. It was


profitable for nothing. Then the word of


the Lord came unto me, saying, Thor say


the Lord, after this manner will I m the


pride of Judah and the great pride of


Jerusalem, this evil people which


refuse. Now see what caused that issue.


This evil people which refuse to hear my


words, which walk in the imagination of


their heart and walk after their own and


walk after other gods to serve them and


to worship them shall even be as this


ghetto which is good


for. So is that again based on their


action or the action God is performing?


Their action is why they are good for


nothing. Okay, beautiful. For as the


ghetto cleaveth to the loins of a man,


so have I caused to cleave unto me the


whole house of Israel and the whole


house of Judah, say the Lord, that they


might be unto me for a people and for a


name and for a praise. So is this what


God wants and for a glory, but they will


not hear. Verse 12, therefore thou shall


speak


unto this word. Thus seeth the Lord God


of every bottle shall be filled with


wine and they shall say unto thee. Do we


not certainly know that every bottle


shall be filled with wine? Then thou


shall say unto them. So you can tell


that it is their


response. So it's not like oh God is God


is out performing an


action. If you take poison, who will


die? The person that took the poison. So


it is their action that is bringing upon


them the consequence. So why is it now


been mentioned as if God is doing


something without them? Because they


believe we have


brain. They believe we have brain. You


can think you're an adult. You can think


nothing should be confusing you here


because their language is not is


cognitive. You have to read everything.


You can't just I read two lines is


enough. No, it is


a you know the meaning of cognition. You


have to think you have to be thinking


not I don't want to think I don't want


to think. No, it's a deep language where


they don't have too many words for many.


The Greek language is more expressive


than the Hebrew language. The Hebrew


language is more conservative. It


doesn't have too many words to express a


subject. Very few words have more than


one Hebrew word of which wisdom is the


king of all of those phrases. Why?


Because of what wisdom represents to the


Hebrew people. Because their language is


a wisdom language is a thinking


language. So they have many words for


that.


So you would always have to read the the


the context to understand what is


happening because if you don't look like


God is just performing actions, God is


just doing this, God is just doing that.


No, it is the


context. Why we always emphasize


contextual reading? Are we good?


All right. What led us here were in


Isaiah. I want to believe


when Isaiah Isaiah Isaiah Isaiah Yeah.


When Isaiah talking about God is the


creator. So how did he create? We said


the heavens are layered and we're


talking about the different applications


of the word heaven. Just to backtrack


back to where we stopped. All right. In


your note, you should note that. So


we're talking about heaven as where God


is. Heaven as where supernatural beings


are good or bad on because heaven is the


unseen realm. Heaven is used as a short


form of supernatural beings where


instead of saying heavenly beings, host


of heaven, you just say heavens, you put


s heavens where he says the heaven where


po Moses says I call heaven and earth to


bear witness. Witness. Witness. Witness.


Heaven and earth to bear witness.


Witness. Deuteronomy 4:26. I call heaven


and earth to bear witness. Heaven and


bearing witness. It's not cloud that is


bearing witness. I call supernatural


beings and every human being present


because Moses was conscious that we are


always before the great


assembly. So heaven and earth together.


So he said, I call heaven and earth to


bear witness.


That's exactly what he's talking about


there. The same thing in Psalm


89. In Psalm 89 where he said Psalm


89:5, "And the heavens shall praise thy


wonders, not the physical heaven, oh


Lord, thy faithfulness in the


congregation of the saints." That sense


there is the word kadoshim used for


supernatural beings, a term for the


nature. We call it nature technology.


Nature is what a thing is


like. Function technology is what a


thing


does. Status technology is the ranking


of that entity. Are you following? So


nature when you say spirit that's the


nature of those supernatural beings.


When you say angel angel is not a nature


technology is a function because it's a


messenger. However, just like you say, I


am a doctor or I use that popular


example. You say I'm a nurse. You say a


nurse that cannot detect vein. That has


already failed. Now, that one is


backyard nursery


school because nurses


can this is based on uh pair review.


Doctors praise nurses a lot for their


brilliance in being able to detect


things that because the doctors mentally


don't have time for all those things


anymore. The nurses are more focused on


doing all of those things because of the


word round and all of those things. And


you now have a nurse that is a nurse


trained and certified but don't know


where vein is is


you and it's a nurse. He say I am then


he said I'm nurse Vivian. What is what


is that nurse doing in front there? I've


just put palo in front


pock. So he say doctor this and the


person don't know where the heart is


located. He's checking your leg. You are


really a


doctor. A


doctor. You are not a doctor sir.


Quack. Quack.


Rainbow not Dr.


Rainbow you get it? So the function over


time is what we now use to describe the


person as it were like an identity. So


don't get it twisted. It doesn't stop


the fact that angel is still a function


technology because it's an assignment


rule. So it's not a nature. So that's


the reason why again like I've told you


words have synonyms. So when you just


type a N ges to revelation and say I


have seen all the Bible vers on that's a


very lazy way to study when you know


that there are many words that I used to


explain a


concept you haven't yet studied on the


supernatural and which is the reason why


there's a lot of uh illiteracy about the


things of the spirit because of how


people just type


spirit there are more use there are more


expression of spiritual things that does


not have the phrase s p i r o i t or


even the u a l or any other thing you


want to add to it and yet it is spirit


that they talking about so don't study


like that I've always told you beware of


how you use


concordance so it says and the heavens


shall praise thy wonders oh


lord the translators knowing fully where


is the same thing brings in the colon


and says thy faithfulness also in


congression of the saints For who in the


heaven can be compared? Are you seeing


it? Who in the heaven can be compared


unto L the Lord? Who among the sons of


the mighty can be likened unto the


Lord? God is greatly to be feared in the


assembly of the saints saints there. The


same word again, Kadosims. And to be had


in reverence of all them that are about


him. Oh Lord God of hosts, that's what


he's talking about. Who is a strong Lord


like unto the altar? Thy faithfulness


round


about. Thank


you. So thy faithfulness congression of


the saint. Thy faithfulness round about


thee. Did you get it? So it's the


context when he uses heaven. Heaven many


of those text when you see heaven is a


short form instead of just saying host


of heaven, heavenly being they just use


heavens. So in the Hebrew it is called


shamim. I am once you add I am to


anything in the just like in the English


language we put s we


put e s


i that's how in the Hebrew the plural is


I am you don't put s for


plural you put I am. So once you see I


am.


So that word shim I am already shows you


that they use it more and that's why


there are more references for the word


heaven use for super and use for you


thinking physical heaven because I am


the same way koshim the same way or


depend on your


transliteration are you following


because the Hebrew is Q so pron kadosh


because of kesh kados the same things


just transliteration from one language


to another.


Uh many of those words always have that


I am


shim for demons, devils. So is the


plural Elohim. That's how you even know


Elohim. That's why the Hebrew word has E


as God, Elo as God, Elohim. So once they


put I am is already showing plurality.


That's why they are the


the thousands of references of the word


Elohim in Genesis to Malachi many


greater portion of them all refers to


supernatural beings because he's used


more for supernatural beings. Funny


enough, because Elohim, but God himself


is called an Elohim, but it's a


different kind of Elohim from those


other Elohims.


God. G O D S and G O D is the same


Hebrew word. G O D Elohim. G O D S


Elohim too. They don't put Elohims. They


don't put S. No, it's already plural.


Are you getting this? So, it's the same


word. G O D in our English. G O D.


Elohim. G O D S Elohim as well. God also


Elohim. Are you following? Because


Elohim is the word for a resident of the


spirit


world. A residence of the spirit world.


And Elohim is also a place of residence


terminology. So a I am an earthling


because I dwell on the earth. I am an


Elohim because I dwell in the realm of


God. That is heaven. So are you


following? That's how the Hebrew


language functions.


So heaven is used like that like we said


uh just quickly run through it. So


heaven is used


for where God is where supernatural


beings are heaven is used as a short


form for supernatural beings. So instead


of saying host of heaven heavenly beings


you just say heavens just like earth is


used for man which does not bother you.


Now when you say the earth was corrupt


was it sound that was corrupt or human


beings? Thank you. So it's easy to


understand that part for when you say


the earth when we now say heaven people


start pissing on their pants like they


are not


thinking earth for man you agree say no


you can't tell me that this is just a


case of being stubborn and ignorant


there's nothing like you can't tell me


people feel like when they do you can't


tell me that is not even how


intellectual arguments are done is you


can't tell me you you are obviously


saying something that is not correct you


say you can't tell me that's resisting


knowledge


Earth is used to explain man because man


is the people of the earth is called


earth. The people of heaven is also


called heaven. That's not so difficult


to


see. All right. So heaven is used in


that context as well. So heaven is also


used. Let's quickly put that number


four. In no particular order I always


say this scattered because I I don't say


it from a note. Heaven is also used for


uh the physical heaven. Let's quickly


add that so that of course you are


looking for the physical heaven and the


word for it where they use the word


heaven. Many times they use they use uh


a different Hebrew word. Sometimes they


use the word sham. Sometimes use a


different Hebrew word which is the word


raia which speaks of the farmament. They


use it to just explain that you're


talking about the physical farmament.


However, sometimes they exchange it. So


the sky, the physical sky, the heaven is


also used like that. Then heaven is also


used to explain the place of our


authority. The place of man


functionality where man is to function


from on the earth. In fact, that is the


starting point. Genesis chapter 1:26


where he said, "And let us make man our


image and let them and let them have


dominion." That is that side on the


north. Now I'm sir, go deep. I know I


will not. This is not the first time I'm


teaching on this subject. Amen. So do


the hard work. Go listen to the


messages. This is part four. For God's


sake, that is how to


listen. Say let's just do a quick study


on it. No, this is the quick study I'm


doing. So by mentioning


it, are we good? All right. Because


that's my focus is not maybe when I


teach on heaven.


as a topic. We can do that again. But I


mean, go listen to the teachings that


have those things properly explained


because I'm just doing a quick summary


so that we can continue where I


stopped. Heaven is used for skies,


physical heaven. Heaven is used for the


place where man function from. That's


where Satan was eyeing that he couldn't


get the sides of the north. That's where


today we say we are seated on high,


seated in heavenly places far above. Man


today is where God intended man to be


the place of functioning. That's the


Psalms chapter 8. When I consider the


heavens, the works of thy hand, that he


funny enough is not physical heaven.


When I consider supernatural beings,


what the what your hands made? I say


what is man? When you look at


supernatural and you look at man, they


say what is man? It is David


contemplating how supernatural have been


respond to man. What is manful of him or


the son of man? Psalm chapter 8 that


thou visitest him for thou has made him


a little lower than the angel. What


angel there is Elohim? Made him a little


lower than supernatural beings and has


crowned him lower in appearance not


authority lower than in appearance and


has crowned him with glory and honor.


How do we know his appearance? We saw it


for Jesus Christ. So it's also Jesus


lower than angels. No, no, he's the


creator. But when he became a man,


Hebrews chapter 2 uses that same word


for him took on him the nature of man.


It did not take on him the nature of


angels. For as much Hebrews 21:14, then


216 and or 18 he mentioned that he took


on him the nature of


angels. 216 I was correct. Took on him


the nature of angels. All right. So


heaven is using that order. So the place


of man's functioning from the on high.


Uh who shall ascend to the hill of the


Lord? You always see man being taught


like man is supposed to ascend. Who


shall ascend to the hill of the Lord?


Who he that has cleaned and has not


committed all of that because that was


always where God made man for. And that


leads to the next use of the word heaven


which is now as a motive. M O T I F used


to explain a reoccurring theme of


mountains because in their world view


the mountain top is called heaven


because that's where the gods are that's


where supernatural beings are in their


world view remember so they use mountain


to explain heaven so when you say is it


in heaven that I should uh the Romans


chapter 10 that Romans chapter 10


explanation that it says the word is


mighty in thy heart and in thy mouth. If


you look at Romans chapter 10 just put


the screen put up the references


there. The righteousness which is of


faith speaketh on this wise say not in


thy heart who shall ascend into heaven


that is to bring Christ down from above


or who shall descend into the deep that


is to bring up Christ again from the


dead. Now all this text where is he


getting it from? It is


Deuteronomy that is reading


from Deuteronomy that is reading from


and saying these


things


and the way he puts it


uh in that Romans 10


vers say not in thy heart who shall


ascend into heaven. So let's go and see


it in Deuteronomy chapter 30.


chapter 30 verse 11. So you understand


literally the story for this commandment


which I command thee where did Moses go


to give them the commandment he went up


Mount Si that is heaven that's what he's


calling which I go up to heaven to bring


it for because what did Moses go up to


bring


commandment so for this commandment


which I command thee this day is not


hidden from thee neither is it far off


it is not in heaven that thou should


they say who shall go up for us and


bring it unto us that we may hear it and


do it. Neither is it beyond the sea that


thou should say, who shall go over the


sea for us and bring it unto us that we


may hear it. But the word is very now


unto thee in thy mouth and that thou


mayest do it. See, I've set before you


this day, good


and life and good and death and evil. So


it's in what Moses was the one who went


up the mountain, who took them through


the


sea. But God's word has always been with


them. Moses did not have to go up to


bring God's word because God's word has


always been with them. Even before they


came out from Egypt, God's word has


always been spoken. Even before Moses


was born, God's word have been spoken to


the people. So God's word have always


been. So that's why I said the word is n


even in thy heart. So it was just for


you to


obey. So just for you to respond. That's


why it's now used to explain the gospel.


So when we preach to people, it's not


that they did not always know that


there's a God in the heart of heart, but


now it's just to respond. So you can't


say we have not brought it to your face


now. So make a response. I will follow


Jesus or you will not follow him. So the


word is n. So heaven is used in that


regard


mountain and we talked this where we in


our series on the mountain of God.


uh then heaven is also used as a short


form of saying the temple. In fact in


the ancient world they have heaven and


earth and in every temple there was the


temple is called the heaven and earth


structure. The heaven and earth


structure. So


the every temple was built with heaven


and earth in mind. The sin and the


unseen world together. And in every


temple there was an image at the center.


The image is what is being woripped.


Now it is that same understanding that


Moses uses in explaining how God made


man. He now said God created the heavens


and the earth but he created man as his


image not to be worshiped but man now as


the image to represent God to all who


come into the temple. So all who come


into the world now have man as the image


bearer shining forth which is why God


never allowed them to make images which


is the reason why it is called idolatry


and all of those things which is why


it's a big issue because he's distorting


the order of creation is distorting the


order of creation is the same way when a


man say I'm not comfortable to be a man


I want to be a female or female say I'm


not comfortable to be a female I want to


be a male if everybody was as dumb as


you then there will be no human being


again that shows you that that is


against created order that is the


meaning of


chaos. So if everybody chose to be that


wise which is really work thinking which


is really uh all the nonsense of uh


identity


crisis. If everybody chose to be like


that then there will be no more human


beings. Now that show that is against


the created


order. It's against the created order.


Is it within your choice? Yes. But that


doesn't make it


right. That doesn't make it


right. So somebody say identify as a


dog. Identify as a pig and you don't


want to sleep with physical pig. Sleep


there. Don't live in a house again.


Let's let the imageries be true. You now


note that people know what they are


doing. It's just the right word is


demonic obsessions and perversions that


wrong with those people.


So Deuteronomy chapter 38 is not in


heaven that I should say who shall go up


for us to bring it. So heaven is used in


that context. Heaven is also used in


that uh temple context. This is where


Jesus said heaven and earth shall pass


away. Notice Jesus uses that phrase a


lot. Heaven and earth shall pass away.


Very I say unto heaven and earth pass


one j when say heaven and earth pass. In


the average Hebrew man hearing Jesus


speak, you know what they are thinking


about? The temple. The temple. Because


the temple is heaven and earth. So how


can heaven cuz actually and that's what


God had in mind because which heaven and


earth is passing


away. Heaven and earth is not passing


away. The heaven and earth that is


passing away is the heaven and earth of


sin, devils and all of that. But he


that's why I said I will destroy this


temple and I will rebuild it in three


days. You see the parallels are all


brought together. So the average Hebrew


man because first kings chapter 8 when


that temple called that temple heaven he


says you will hear from here you will


hear from heaven. He you see how many


times heaven is mentioned in that first


kings chapter 8 when he was the temple


he say you will hear from here you will


hear from heaven you will hear from this


place he interfaces it a lot very long


chapter by the way long there are so


many verses in that first kings 8 and he


uses it to explain what he's saying


which is not different from what


everybody in that timeline


understood that heaven and earth could


be called the temple


Are you with me? So that's also how


heaven is used in that application. So


when you are reading heaven is in that


application as well. Then lastly, heaven


is also used to explain that which is uh


that way of saying the miraculous that


which is unexplainable. They will just


use the word heaven. Bread from heaven.


Fire from heaven. I mean we can't


explain it but we just saw fire. So he


say it is from heaven. Fire from heaven,


bread from heaven. So he's used to


explain the miraculous, the impossible


made possible. So he said out of heaven,


out of heaven, out of heaven. So you see


that fire from heaven, bread from


heaven, out of heaven. The Lord gave you


that manner out of.


So is used to explain the miraculous


that which it's extraordinary.


So we have heaven as the immaterial word


or the unseen word. So you must get all


of that view together. So when you are


reading heaven, you have to look at the


context to know which one. So it's not


just like in your dictionary, one word


has more than one meaning. My favorite


example is always the word stand. If I


say where is the stand that you sell,


you don't have to get up. But if I point


to Mr. the Lord and I say


stand. How come he's standing up?


Because I pointed to him and I said


stand. It couldn't be go and sell


something. Where's your stand? Okay. Now


I say take a stand in life. Why does it


not do attention? Because that's not


what it means. Take a stand in life is


not are you following? So I say where is


the stand where you sell things? Notice


is has nothing to do with all of that


but it's still the same word stand.


Everybody that is thinking know that


that word we are using it in different


context when it comes to Bible we off


that thinking every word mean the same


thing though no that's not reading the


Bible has thank you my words have


meaning in how they are used that's why


dictionaries today a word have meaning


based on how it is used in the sentence


not just that what does this word mean


depend on how you are using it so we


have to that's why when you wrote y when


you wrote jam They showed you meaning of


words with sentence. They were teaching


you how to know meaning of words. That's


why they did not just write the word and


say write the opposite or write the


meaning. They using a sentence so that


that way you will be better able to tell


the synonym. You better able to tell


lexes and structure how it combines is


the structure. The lexes are the lexical


items. I want to know the noun, the


verb. So that's just how language is.


The same thing is when we are reading


the Bible. So we said when we read the


Bible we must look at it in the


historical context, the cultural


context, the grammatical


context and also when you see all of


that you see their theirological context


as well. What people understood about


God and that is actually biblical


context more than just the pre and post


text. That one is easy to see from the


grammar. That's only pre and post is in


the grammatical context.


And that's just one aspect of


grammatical


context which I told you another already


cognitive. So when you read a subject


like unseen forces that we are teaching


on you are not going to just type u n s


e n and reference it. So say the bible


is not loud on it. No. So hebrews


chapter 11 we saw that through faith we


understand verse three. truth will


understand that the walls


w that's the periods of time again


normal word that you know is worlds is


now used as periods of time because


words have more than one meaning the


walls Hebrews


11:3 true faith we understand that the


walls were


framed


ws the walls that's the periods of time


cycles of time different ages different


aon you now realize why we Look at


original language. The aon periods of


time is different from


cosmos. All right. The periods of time


through that the periods of time were


framed, arranged, put


together, given it shape and order by


the word of God. So God's word shaped


every era in time. And how? So that the


things which are seen. So how he shaped


every error was so that the things which


are seen were not made of the things


which do appear. So they use the seen


word to explain the unseen word. He now


starts off with a by faith we see that a


so you are seeing a physical sacrifice


but the physical sacrifice meant more


because the sin was used to explain the


unseen. So he will use sin to explain


unseen. That's how God's word was


communicated down through the ages. And


we've said that the biblical writers


when they write so that we will have


faith in God. Scriptures are able to


make you wise unto salvation through


faith which is in Christ. So the


scriptures is to make you wise unto


faith. That faith so the scriptures


explains both the seen and the unseen


world. So the Bible has a supernatural


worldview context. Once you remove it,


you already outside the Bible. So it is


not anti-science. No, it is pre


pscience before the renaissance before


the industrial revolution before all of


that the Hebrew and the Greek test were


already


written. So it's before the rise of


science. Are we good?


So it is primod not that it's against


modernity. No it's not against


modernity. So allow so we now say don't


bully them. Don't allow ancient man to


be ancient. It helps your


interpretation. When you realize that,


oh, they are not going to think it from


our 21st century. They are going to


think it from their own


century. Then you will know how to read


the Bible and interpret the Bible


properly. So don't from your 21st


century when you are reading their


century. Year from their century, which


is where I now taught you exists to


heretic. Always learn to move from exes


to exesises is the critical explanation


of the


text. Did you get it? So critically


explain the the explain the text. But


how you would do that is in the then


there. So I want to hear what did they


hear? What did they say in the then and


there? Then heetics translation I cross


over to our word and translate it so


that I can hear the same thing in the


here and now. which is why Jesus uses


that phrase in Luke 24 when he was


teaching them beginning at Moses and all


the prophets he expounded unto them


that's the word demeno which is the


where you get the word hermenetics


principle where we say biblical


hermenetics so he interpreted the


scriptures unto them so what Jesus was


simply doing was crossing over from that


those text Luke 24 uh 26 ought not


Christ have suffered this at the begin


at Mo. So verse 27 it says and begin at


Moses and all the prophet 24 27 and


begin and all the prophets he expounded


unto them. So scriptures are to be what?


Scriptures are to be what? Scriptures


are to be scriptures are to be


expounded. He expounded onto them in all


the scriptures the things concerning


him.


All right. So the things concerning


himself


himself. So when we study about unseen


forces, we're looking at how it


interfaces with the scene because you


they are not it's not made in


isolation. Come on. All right. Heaven is


not made in isolation. They were made


together. So and that's why you always


see sound like I've told you every


reference of heaven on the earth where


you see sound from heaven something from


heaven where did people hear it was it


not people on the earth that hearing


that voice from heaven was the voice of


from heaven for the sake of the people


in heaven to hear it no it's for the


sake of people on the earth to hear it


and again it takes a bit of time but


which has happened to many of you when


we say heaven let your brain not always


run to jump up planet, it will keep


shrinking your IQ. Biblical IQ, I mean


your IQ the Bible because every time you


hear heaven, you think to planet. Nobody


in the Bible was thinking like that. You


are the one that just doing yourself. So


when they are thinking heaven, they are


thinking unseen


here. Are you following? So always have


that imagery in mind. The seen and the


unseen are here. It even helps you to


switch


It helps you find is majorly Christians


who don't understand how they unseen


water here. Look at that man has gone to


secure alternative power from nonsense


of course and they have given him a


charm. It is here that is using it but


it is unseen but it is here


and oh they shoot him and the gun does


not enter. You know how normal it is for


people don't argue that when you hear


now they shot me I like you say ah all


this person they lie you have a problem


of course and I'm not saying anybody


have shot me before and nobody will


shoot me don't worry the point I'm


making


is it is always easy for people to


believe in the negative that's how much


people worship the


devil it's always say no you can't tell


me that you can't tell me that so people


have natural faith for darkness


natural faith for darkness like ah you


normal then they encounter people like


us who don't have normal faith for


darkness when you say something happened


I say no it cannot be I always


argue they always argue the one the


light why should argue I don't believe


all those things so say somebody I say


let me try


it always say let it try so let me try


my own give me the gun let me try it


with you that have the will now


know say the last with no end. I


remember one of uh community boys that I


that I do things with and he was saying


I said he said ah so I said should I


test it say ah baba n no no say you are


power you that told me it will not do


this and it not happen like that sir no


don't test it with me I don't want to


die can be we are testing power now now


let's see test to see if it


will so it depend on who testing


said they fortified you against what?


And against who? They not fortify you


against me. They fortify against lesser.


The fortification does for lesser.


Fortification don't go higher. For


fortify, so when the higher you not know


that you so higher, you


now forgration is to protect you from


everything under. But when it is now


something higher than the fortification


that fortify


you, it is


over. Amen. And that's where we come to


town. We are in that


height. You say when we see


h the higher power, we clear road from


the highway. No, when you see the only


power, we don't recognize you as power


because over all the powers of the enemy


are not shall by enemies hurt you. We no


longer recognize your power as anything.


And that's how the believer renews his


mind to understand that in this


world that is


nothing. The devil's power and all of


those things and we see all the effect


of it and thanks to Nollywood, thanks to


uh supernatural Hollywood and yeah not


the supernatural Hollywood and


scientific Hollywood. So they depend on


the writer. I I like script writing. I


like uh looking at the names of those


directors. Some of them have a


supernatural worldview context in their


writing. So you notice all the movies


they direct or they write the script


writers are always in line with that.


Some of them are just uh scientific AI


and all of those other


things. Some of them write with fantasy


uh setup and all of that.


Now the core of one of the things that


have happened is that there has been an


education towards the unseen world in


the negative that is easy to believe


that oh with sci-fi I can do this that


is sci-fi movies science fiction movies


so it's Superman Batman uh Black Panther


what's the names of all of these


characters the Marvel character the DC


characters uh all of them Uh, Black


Widow, Scarlet Witch. I mean, there are


so many of them. Everybody choose their


favorite, right?


One, is it Ultron? He changed his name


to Vision now. All the different names


of all the different Marvel characters,


DC characters, Green Lantern, though


they mess up his character in the in


different from the comics. All of those


fictions,


comics are now being depicted in movies


and it's so normal and funny enough they


are the highest gross selling movies.


Why? Because natural man, every human


being has an appetite that ys to be


greater, that ys to be more, that ys to


be over and beyond.


So when the Avatar was released, not the


cartoon, not the last MBN that the


movie,


the gross selling, you notice all of


those because there was something about


the unseen. There's something about the


world beyond. Man has always crave for


it. The same reason why people are


waiting forward for their alien evasion.


Can we shock them? It will never


happen. It's just a foolish again is the


world that knew not God. The word by


wisdom knew not God. You keep looking


for what the only creature you will ever


find is human being and all the other


things that God created on the


earth. It's good you know. He said no


they have been finding they have you are


you are as confused as the person that


wrote the science text book that now


does not want us to use the very


parameters they gave us to fact check


what they are saying which kind of


nonsense because you you you snap one


picture that we don't know if it is in


it's in Broadway you snap the picture


you now want us to


believe that you were up in planet in


the planetary system you saw this you


saw that say no there are people that


have gone to Mars and all and they saw


human M stop come off that stupidity


they will not find human beings there


say no they saw some creatures sir are


you watching movie or they did not see


any creature stop lying nobody have ever


seen any creature any human being say no


but they they will look like all those


things is in the imagination the only


thing that look like that are


demons so you sooner you understand that


sooner you understand how man craves for


something. So the only aliens from


another world that will help anybody in


this world is the church. The people


from another


world, which word from God's word to


invade and colonize this world with his


kingdom. That's the and until we rise to


that occasion to be what the world wants


us to be, what the world craves for as


the answer to their issue, unperturbed,


not troubled, not disturbed by any


happening within and around us, then we


can fully say we have taken our


place because nothing puts the believer


under tension. He's always at


ease. Amen. And when we say I am


supernatural, that is the core at the


core what we are dealing with. I am not


troubled over anything that is


happening. Nothing h nothing that is


happening gets me to that point where


I'm worried. Um I've given up. I feel


like there's no hope. There's no future.


Never. I don't do that. Amen. And the


more we understand the supernatural, the


more we see that advantage. Then some


persons now take it to his extreme and


now hear oh when we say supernal


supernatural they now become of no use


naturally. So learn a skill they will


not learn. Be diligent in your work they


will not just oh I believe in miracles.


Oh I believe in miracles. But that's not


how miracles believe in


you because you are you are doing


something wrong. It's a it's again the


heavens and the earth are not


functioning properly. That is again


chaos because you don't want to be


useful on the earth. You just


want Abba came through. Ah, God came


through for me. Nothing, no doubting


that God will always come through for


us. But why do you want to be lazy?


There are laws in operation on the earth


and God that creator God wired this


world with those


laws. So there are economic laws. If you


want to be rich, you do what rich people


do. If you want to be poor, you do what


poor people do. It's not a game of luck.


It's not a game of wishing. That's why


you can tell yourself that's why we


train children to have goals. We train


children to have foresight. So you


determine where you want to go. So how


do I get there? Then I ask questions.


Then I would stop doing what everybody


is doing because I want to have results


beyond what everybody is doing. Then we


say that's why he say teach me the


ropes. Let teach you the ropes. So do it


like this. Do it like this. realize that


ah oh no anybody you see now they have


money they must be doing fraud you you


are too poor in your thinking are too


poor in your thinking how much can be


made through fraud how come they


annoying for list say because they feel


to declare the asset you are still


thinking poor there's no asset in fact


you can't do that kind of work


successfully and even have an asset


brain that's why the only asset they can


have is to buy


hand sorry is it pain you are you a


member but that's please I'm not I'm not


of course I'm not against any human


being as it were but having that idea


that


oh you know how hardworking those guys


are and we sleep in the night they say


all I just want is soft work papa is


your work hard pass our


own hard pass our own because we are


sleeping You are still working sir say


never pay never pay never pay. So the


point we are making is


this there are laws on the earth is if


those laws we do we follow those laws by


laws I mean principles or normal


order you did not bait for three days


you expect your body not to smell and


you live under this tropical weather you


think you are abroad where you just pray


perfume to cover for


you forget you


sweat You failed biology class


obviously. H you don't know you will


bait. So you say I did not have to huh


because I heard somebody abroad did not


bait for one day two


days


wet which is not good but you know many


times when our people travel like that


they they fear the


water. So it's hot because as water


touches your body is is cold. Express


with each other say I can't believe that


I can't not get passport. You arguing


travel first everything everything is


fight everything


aggression travel first you will know


that is is cold so always understand


where people are coming from give people


grace no don't tell me that don't tell


me that you don't have to always


experience things before you are


gracious how can they not be dirty pig


we are waiting for


you say understand now then you not


delay your b evening you that in Nigeria


you already


5 a.m. you are baited 9. In fact, if


it's too hot by 12, you are baited


again. Enter bedroom now say can't we


just uh wait till


evenly will not be better sir. It will


still be


cold. So there are normal laws the same


thing if I do not that's why when Jesus


healed that man say give him the child


he say give him food to


eat you know kill gyro's daughter will


kill him again so he gives the food


because he has


certain nothing that was hunger but for


a human being to be alive he needs to


eat food is very important say no I


don't eat food I'm longer in the realm


of mortars you are watching too much


Chinese films So every time you want to


talk you always using emot that


one the


elix Chinese film you they


do so to be healthy. So if I'm doing


everything I should normally do doesn't


mean God will not even when we make


mistake in following those normal laws.


See God is committed to us to help us in


spite or despite. So you are not doing


all the things you are supposed to do in


the natural as it relates to those laws.


God will God will never say I'm not


helping you. No, it's only when you say


you don't want his help that you will be


without his help. So God has committed


himself to humanity like that much more


the man in Christ. Amen. Because that is


his speaking that is his child that is


his son his daughter there. So he's


going to be committed to your matter.


And once you give him that uh ownership


he doesn't always have to ask your


counsel because he's your father. The


only difference is that your physical


father you didn't you don't give them


permission to be your uh your father


that the one that born you but for God's


own with your active will you say he's


my lord are you following so from that


day he takes the reign over your life


except where you are dragging with him


and he allows you your choice just so


that you can see that this thing not


ever go smoothly like that it is not in


man to direct himself. So over time you


now learn that is God loves me that's


why he's even helping me and shielding


me. So this thing is God helping me. So


and that's how it works. So back to what


I was saying.


So we can follow those laws. So oh I was


taking care of my


health and the sickness came the power


of God will still remove it. Oh I was


careless with my health. The power of


God will still remove it. But now don't


become careless with your because if you


become careless with your health


sickness will come again.


because you are living in this world


like I said in that our teaching on


truth experience meeting that as much as


we charismatic when we pray for people


say that sickness has gone


forever it's just one of our charismatic


phrase where say it has gone forever you


this you have a mortal body you have not


yet put mortality if you are not careful


with your body it will come something


else if you got heat of this one another


thing will come and if you do the very


thing that bring that sickness from that


same organ man again will come back that


should not put anybody in fear but


that's the reason why we should be


particular with how we live so where I


now follow these healthy living experts


and they start selling fear to me I


always uh log out from those people why


because fear is not how I think how I


function impact knowledge but don't


impact fear but you know if you want to


sell uh dark marketing strategy ies you


sell based on what people like. You sell


people uh people's fanatism, their


addictions, they are just dark


marketing. Those things has a lot of


play and people use those things. So,


you know, if I market with fear, I'll


get more following. So, people do all of


those things. But there are other ways


to market and achieve the same result


without dark. There is not voodoo. that


is just uh there are other appealing


ways but you have to use the tactics


that drags people. So for every of those


bad way of other way of marketing the


converse of it in the light is better


and more


uh of selling fear. Sell joy and you see


that joy produces more. It's just that


people fear more. So it draws people.


But ultimately what people want is joy


is peace. And once you can reflect that


in your tone, you market better because


it's foundational principle of all


men. That's a bonus. By the way, back to


what I was saying. So life generally


there are principles, there are laws and


we not to follow those things. Not say


oh since you are supernatural just be


disappearing from place to place. How


were people moving from place to place


before? How did all how come all the men


in scripture did not have from place to


place? And yet that was even a


supernatural world view where there was


now no technology of cars and all of the


rest. You move from place to place.


That's it. You move. It defeats the


whole place of having legs. You can tell


by design that man was not made to be


disarrayed from place to


place. Man was made to move. That's why


Mr. Niger characteristics of living


thing movement show say you are alive


not they move one die


so move


move and that's why those of you who


rarely ever move because you have cars


not just one cars you will notice the


day you walk a long distance you feel


like you want to die so you are not


healthy Google be careful I express you


the so do exercises I beg you as As much


as you just from AC to AC, from AC to


AC, please set up your house in such a


manner that you are able to climb, step


up and down or just make sure you find


something to do that allows you move


your body. If


not, you will know later why you should


have been doing those


things. Are we are we good? So there are


all of these natural laws and we are to


follow them. So the extreme now says to


hell with all of this to hell with all


of this know some people are looking for


their favorite pastor say I like this


pastor he has told us that pastors are


the problem they don't do this I like


other ones why do we always have to have


one extreme over the other and the same


people that are now coming out to


criticize other persons in their


teaching where the same people that


taught the same nonsense


before but no problem sound doctrine is


always exact that's why we stick with


sound doctrine. Sound doctrine tells you


you can be all you should be in the


natural and you can also be on fire for


the Lord. If you want to be a


politician, you can be a politician,


very good one for that matter. But you


must understand how politics work and


stop thinking is because I'm a


Christian. That's why it's not favoring


me. You are just being unintelligent.


It's called political science. There's a


science to it. You cannot do politics


without lobbying. You you should not


even not intelligent to be called a


politician. not to know that they lobby


say ah what is this nonsense called


godfatherism? It is not nonsense. It is


illiteracy that calls it nonsense


because every unfortunate that is now


called godfather but is because maybe


from that movie you you are having wrong


ideas but it's a mentor. Somebody must


lead you in. Somebody must bring you in.


If you want to sit with the nobles, you


have to be brought in. Space have to be


made for you. Of course, it shouldn't


come at you selling. And that's proper


proper understanding of God's word. I


know I'm going to sell my soul. I'm not


going to sell the country, which these


other people will not now do. However,


if I'm going to remove the fundamentals


of playing politics, it's the same thing


with


um uh somebody wants to be uh what do


they call that in secondary school?


prefect uh he say vote for me if if it's


by voting that he say vote for me and


he's saying I will I will um let's use


the normal one that does not understand


how politics work is he say


um I will ensure that this whole school


is clean juniors will not be beaten


The whole reason why we want to be


senior is to be junior


sir. It's kind of which kind of politics


is that one. You now wonder why you not


win. The other guy he just said h


cafeteria food on me. He say it's not


fair. It's not fair. He has rigged it.


But all of a


sudden your values and which is why


again which these are conversations


people are not ready for because people


are more emotional than they think. So


once you just burn them burn them cancel


culture cancel culture because it's


again perpetuates


illiteracy. Think. Be rational. Think


before you jump and destroy businesses


that took years to build. Think. Think.


You have not been able to build


anything. You want to pull down things.


Say, "Oh, we are this. We are we are


that we will tell." And all of the


things you want to be good and fine.


Nobody stops you from having natural


people you love. And God's word is not


against you having human beings whether


sail that you like. You you want to


follow their principles. But not where


it begins to negate God's word. I will


not destroy somebody else business


because they are not doing no no. I will


not pull down somebody else hard work.


As horrible as those individuals are can


be behave or evil will never overcome


evil. It is good that overcomes evil.


Two evils out of two evils choose


neither. So this is the very way to


perpetrate this. So there are other ways


around it but often time mob action I've


have to save many persons from mob


action because people don't care hey we


don't go we don't go already so we don't


want to think and I remember somebody


asking me and saying that the whole


system is a dirty


game we need a a a a a clean party and I


said don't you understand how this thing


works if that clean party enters wins


election every other person that were


dirty before we enter that party because


the parties are made for human being


it's not it's not Christianity that we


are using to accept people neither is it


morality that we to accept into parties


that is not how you buy the party from


it's not how is your behavior is


excellent behavior coming to our party


no so once this has entered even if it


was the party that everybody clamored


for in the last election if they had


become the prime primary people in key


positions. All the evil, evil, wicked


people that have destroyed the nation


would have also followed to those


parties too. It's just how it is. That's


why your Daniel that you like. I want to


be a position like Daniel. You know his


party was party of witchcraft people.


Sorcerers, he was not in a good party.


He was in a demonic party. If you were


in his time, you would have told him say


our brother Daniel has


fallen. He has been swallowed up by


demons. But that's true. He was in a


party of demons. What about Joseph? You


say, "I I may God raise me like a


Joseph." Who was Joseph surrounded


by? Which party was he in? Christian


party. CP, CPP, Christian party.


Christian Progressive


Party. Nothing like


that. Because who do you rule? You rule


saved and unsaved, good and bad. So you


cannot form policies that reflect only


your religious standing. So you can't I


can't as a Christian get into office now


and start hating Muslims. That is


stupid. That is not the reason why I'm


president. I'm president over


everybody, the saved, the unsaved, the


good, the bad, the evil. because I'm


also president over all the witches over


all the that's why you see assocation of


people decide that this who they want to


vote


for you said there's nothing like that


no how can we agree how come that kind


of thing it's on the


earth only thing you not seeation of


kidnappers and police will arrest them


probably have not broken any


law because the government are there to


maintain law and


order except when they now break the law


and all that which many times is the


case of anarchy. So we know very well as


human


beings how things work which many times


most Christians don't they they just


remove just like I gave this example now


politics it looks strange you must know


how basic politics


work say it's not by sharing food I hear


you don't


vote of course it's not by sharing food


you are very correct but that is not a


statement to put food stop you will add


other things because even in the


campaigns if you have ever gone to any


of the campaigns. You hear people say


they share food for they talk. You not


realize that what do people really


want. So you have to interface all of it


because you can't keep people for 8


hours in the stadium. All you just tell


them is you bring a big book. Look at


what I'm going to do when you vote. Look


at what I'm going to do. You're going to


vote me. It is against politics itself.


You would have to bring your favorite


musicians to sing, dance because people


will need to be entertained. People, you


will need all of those things. Then if


you are going to say policies, you say


small because people really don't want


to hear. All they just want to know is


that oh now our man be that our man be


that. So when you now sit among


intellectuals other forums you can now


pitch your this is what I will do when I


enter. Say who goes to campaign to this


or that where people are hungry looking


for cloth they share as well be they


will share food say oh that system need


to change then we now say yeah come now


you house they tweet come and gather in


the stadium you will not come and gather


in the stadium so is the very thing


because you now have to work with


organizations this is the normal order


and it's not something oh is corrupt we


we call normal


order because it's easy if I get the


students to vote For me it's easy. So I


will have to work with association of oh


I will have to work with the motor park


because these organizations are so


structured that they are union president


can say if you not vote we not going to


do this for again but you in your heart


you can just say rain for not going out


because you not drain one. So they


always have to target this core


association people that is politics.


That's why you play it to win not that's


why you don't lose friends over it.


common sense things you say no some


people who hate their family members say


how could you vote for that


party even God allows my choice to go to


her you are you are you are now acting


very devilish I have a


choice as much as you can tell me oh


it's a wrong choice but you can't tell


me not to make a choice look at the


creator of the whole world a decision as


important has been with him forever. He


doesn't put a gun to our


head. Mark anybody that does not like


our favorite candidate is a fool. He say


this then tomorrow now you are you are


saying favor


me what are we what are we doing then


you what because people don't understand


how government work how because they


think everything is just in the name of


Jesus. So you say, "Oh, come let's pray.


Let's pray about it."


Hey, as you grow in influence, it's the


same thing. As you grow in influence, as


you become more wealthy, you must make


friends with police officer, make


friends with the military, make friends


because you can easily call these people


because now you're somebody who people


may like to rob. It is the growth of


life. As you grow in life, you must have


network. You can't say it does not


matter. This does not matter. Does not


matter. Now you have called us. We have


now come to come and remove you from the


tight corner. How come you did not think


those things were important? Because I


don't mind my business. I just have now


your favorite singers wig because


protocols are important. Say it's not by


protocol. It's not by protocol. It's by


protocol. It's by


protocol. That's why we tell people you


see when we have a guest say everybody


sit down wait until the pastor leave.


That's the reason for order. Now you you


you close the same time everybody we all


forced to go through one door drag come


on because that's how people


are that's how people are that's why the


leader must be stronger everything


people see emotionally that should be


getting to him must be thicker so if


everything crumbles you then you can't


you can't carry weight for 10 persons


want to carry the weight of a thousand


persons you want to now carry the weight


of a nation you grow in listening. Of


course, those other people may not or


could not have and young people, young


people should, but it's not because they


are young that should give them the


edge. It's because they have wisdom and


what they can actually do to pilot the


affairs.


So, you learn, you don't say no Jesus


Christ remember our focus on sin forces


so that you are not surprised that I'm


coming from this angle in this second


edition being wise and strong with his


power. Are you following?


So, so people don't know, oh, when this


can apply. Oh, when this can apply,


well, when this can apply. Hallelujah.


So, understand how things work in the


natural. Understand how normal things


work in the


natural. It's like mob action. People


are saying, "Hey, you you do this."


People don't listen. What do you do at


that time? It's not to stand there and


say the Lord will vindicate me. Oh,


you'll be roasted. Run into a shop where


a woman is and quickly start explaining


because that woman will be able to say


hey now my shop be there. Then from


there people can now reason you just


start there say no not be me not be me.


Don't put for your head not for divine


mercies that police were passing by.


They for you say you not do. There was a


member of house like that some years


back that


almost lie on her head publicly in the


marketplace like that and that's how


they almost just lynched her to death.


You must understand how normal things


work. So you saw that testimony from our


brother because if he's not coming with


the power of God, you have to do your


hand like so that you are not fighting.


You have to go and say if it is God


that's why you not go live long because


you you don't want to be normal. You


don't understand the place of no the


normal is this. So I should do this at


the same time as I'm doing this. Always


try on the same way I shared that story


of the supermission meeting but some


many years ago and the lady I did not


even know she had not been able to have


a child. I laid hands on her and she


said God will do it. I said yeah. So so


I said go meet your husband. You know


they meet your husband there. Sleep with


your husband for God's sake. So she said


no God will do it. It took me time


before I realized I was dealing with a


mad person. Cuz how did she not know


that she's supposed to sleep with her


husband? I don't understand. She had


auntie she explained it to me that no


now pastor are you saying god cannot do


it. I


saidh don't you sleep with your husband.


He said no not that one now but do I


have to self can God


ah they walk among us. Hey God they walk


among


us. They are with us. They dress like us


but they are not of ah no once there are


some things I say I say they walk among


us


thought are you following so the same


even me as a pastor that sometimes oh


some persons get married and when they


want to have a child it begin to look


difficult I tell them no it's either


because you were not sexually active


before it's your first time oh and your


body's adjusting to the whole process


that's like good chologist explain these


things to you so that you realize that


don't fear don't panic as long as


there's nothing wrong with you you will


have a child not go


yeah come no your body will play tricks


with you then it will lead to other


things kill that fear because the woman


that


get


not as he


Now just do all of that and say then you


have all those expert that put you under


pressure. Know your cycle. Don't know


your cycle for your husband. Your body


belongs to your husband. Your body


belong to your wife. Stop all those


nonsense. Stop living as if you are a


prostitute. You don't have you don't


have seasons for your husband. You don't


have seasons for your wife. So whether


your body is doing this is my safe. You


don't have safe and unsafe. You are


married for God's sake. Stop living like


you are gay. Remove those old lifestyle


of


of this is my safe. You don't have safe


period. You are married man. What is the


worst that can


happen? That's what we want to happen.


The worst that can happen as a married


woman is you get b. That's what we


want. I'm too


blunt. What is the worst that can happen


to a pregnant woman? It's not to have a


child. So have the child. So remove your


mind from


there. These are the things. All this


you see how you laugh over it now.


People don't take it seriously because


again they don't understand normal


order. I wish we we can just do a series


on normal order. You now see how many


Christian not even know normal


order. Normal order. Normal order.


Normal order. The normal order of things


is this. Not the normal order of in


different things and say I want a job. I


want a job. We only submitted uh CV in


one


organization. Are you playful or what is


really what is what shall we what shall


we call


you? Say you say aba is my maker. Aba is


my mover. Is it aba that to submit it


there? Then we see the how lies


begin. So you just submitted it


somewhere and you say one is enough.


After all God is my God. Even God is


like God is my God. What does that mean?


Then he's not inside the house pressing


phone, playing games,


relaxing. You made a


way. When my back was against the wall,


not all of us have that testimony as a


song. It's your back that was against


the wall. Some of us have never had our


back against the wall. So when her back


was against the wall, when his back was


against just like that singer said,


friends and family turn their back on


me. No sir, it's you ma. My family never


turn back on me. I have great family.


Everybody I've never been able to sing


that song. Say friends and family. No,


no, no. Is that song is only unique to


you


ma having crisis with your producer now.


So friends and family turn their back on


me. I think they turned their back on


you now. Let's be careful our


confession. All right, let's drop it


there.


You guys know a lot of


things. If you know, you


know. Understand the normal order of


many things. I said normal order of many


things. I said normal order of many


things. See I just read my book once in


the whole


semester.


Labado.


Shabado. That's why I should check the


board. F a fa fa fa f a day f a day f a


day you know


f you got you you understand that's why


you're laughing


f


everywhere friends and


family read your book read your book and


how do You read, don't put yourself


under pressure. The normal order,


there's nobody that is not intelligent.


It's just they don't give themsel


attention. There's nobody that created


dull. Even if they had two wrong jeans


combining to burn them, they can fight.


Yeah. Cuz you first inherit, your first


smart comes from parents. before strong


head, before your determination to be


wise comes


in. Before your determination comes in,


that's why they do nature, nurture, they


do all of those things in g when they


are teaching all of those


things. I can make up my mind


that said every day Gary Gary Gary so


even the diet is a diet that fosters


dullness. Take milk. No, you say there's


no milk in Nigeria. It's only creamy uh


it's only cream we have no walla


uh take this you say no you know nothing


you are taking that help brain function


then okay sleep in the night no is at


the dead of


night 12 after working hard all day


forcing table dynamics to enter how can


he


enter how can he enter say h forcing


everything to say this mechn I don't


know why it's not entering we sleep in


the left eye ah no now


sleep that's why you see this scholar in


your class you not see that that scholar


in your class used to sleep you not say


ah it's this thing is just grace it's


not grace anything made lecturer left


class they read it's in normal order


because while it's still fresh you just


go through the note then you read though


that's why they gave you that prospectus


before school resume so that you will


read everything before the school


resume so that you are now ready. So


when I teaching it was not your first


time of hearing


it. So then afterward you now have short


time just review. So you have two set of


calendar the one time table the one you


use for all or you were taught that day


you read that then you continue with


your normal order because you want to


finish a test book on time. Then you


realize that oh I didn't even have to


spend more than six hours. Anybody that


read six hours in a day or to get


straight A


is don't know how to


read. How can you read six hours in a


day every day? The issue is consistency.


You do two. So the normal order is two


to six. 2 hours to 6 hours you always


get abba. You will now have


abba not a


day. Just maintain it consistently. That


is normal order. As long as you know how


to read the same thing carriage to


wealth. Understand how wealth is built.


You say we say multiple stream of


income. You say multiple. Someone say my


passive income I have three passive


income. When I say what is the passive


income? Uh uh in the evening I also


punch my laptop for a convention


assistant. In the morning I work eight


store. Why is that passive income? So


you have one act one job and two side


jobs. All of them are all active income.


Which one is what is passive there?


Passive means I work once and the money


keeps coming. The process is


automated. Is passive. You are still


involved. You say it's


passive. Dictionary has not lost it


meaning passive. They wake up every So


you have TV jobs, man. You have the one


you do uh 8 to 4. You have the one you


do 6


to 10 p.m. Then you have the one you do


early hours of the morning, 3 to 6. And


you wonder why you won't live long.


Evil government say 35 years maximum


because you shouldn't trade in time so


much to be wealthy. You want to trade


time forever and ever. Time is the only


way I can be rich. Time is the only way.


Time is the only


way. So government say 35 years go rich.


You're not rich because you are doing


the system that does not help before


they retire. You not 35 years. I be 30


years they have reduced it. Yeah. So we


got time. Everybody starts off using


time to make money and you outgrow it to


use time to save more money. Time to use


money to buy back your time. That's why


you shouldn't do everything. The more


wealthy you get, the more other persons


now have money. You lie. You will still


wash your clothes. You go still do


everything by yourself. No give other


people job. That's why you not having


time to make more money. So because you


not allow the normal order of how the


economy functions


work have investment like investment all


you can think of is Pony scheme uh


network pyramid


uh I know this person that put in this


one that put in this one I know this you


bring two person that will not bring two


person or you have the one that they


give you outrageous


ROI 70% how many in central bank how


many is the one that SEC say is normal


percentage you have exceeded it times


three and the good thing is I will give


the money 1 of April I will get it back


from 1st of


May you said I did not know it it will


not work you did not know which business


did they put something in 60% why is


that not doing that same business should


be intelligent nothing produc uses that


fast in under a month


now because that is not an investment. I


say oh this is because you have used the


word invest invest for that you buy


books I have invested to my life


book investment because we have lost the


meaning of what investment means what


assets the same thing all these other


areas so when we now teach unseen forces


it always look like oh these pastors are


taking our time me that is teaching you


now does that not show that I know many


things about many things so how have you


stopped me from being supernatural and


you know supernatural have reached


There's nothing wrong with those things.


So that's why in this series we are


having a slant more. Don't miss out


Wednesdays, Sundays being wise and


strong because we really need to be wise


with these forces. So as much as I'm


doing what I should do, I know how to be


wise with the power of God spirit.


Know how to be wise. Know how to be all


of those. I have people who uh work in


multinationals. They will not create


multinational corporations. They will


never create relationship with their


bosses. Whoever gets promoted that does


not create boss say is HR fault.


HRO why don't you understand normal


human order. You don't want know my boss


is evil. My boss is a witch. Have you


seen that woman? Have you met her? Is


you we have met. We can tell that you


are a wicked person every time. Have you


met him? Have you met her? Have you met


him? Have you met? And once anybody just


get a bit tough. Once things don't go


your normal way. Evil, evil, evil. You


know they quit. Oh, you see


dead and you don't think the boss will


get to know that you are part of the


people who speak evil of him or her. Do


you think informations don't travel far?


You wonder why you are stuck


there. I interact with owners of


companies a lot. See that? Ah, you not


think I know I caught ah you not


think using playing in the office doing


this give


110 understand the place of relationship


understand the place of


skill come from all the places and see


if you will not be promoted. If you are


not now promoted then we can then when


we just add small force small power


everything will become as it was made to


be and that's what we are saying always


know how to do things first


normally it's same thing when in in the


covid year the same way people


were how can they tell us to wash and


wash hand is is normal health you are


supposed to be washing hand regularly


okay wash and Say you can't tell me that


I know whose I am. How does knows whose


I am having to do with washing hand? Is


it that who you are is afraid of washing


hand? I know who I am in Christ. Just


say you are afraid. You say wash hand,


you refuse to wash hand.


So the same priest that could heal the


leprosy people were the same people that


had precautions for


leprosy don't have a wisdom that does


not understand that the power of God can


be preventive and it can deliver and can


it's offensive and defensive understand


to not say no it's always offense


offensive or everywhere what about now


where the power teaching you defense you


will not now find you


alive because you only know offense


Offense, offense, offense. No.


Understand how every of these things


work.


Hallelujah. I'll be wise


with the power of God. I'll be wise


with the power of God.


Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen. Learning something.


Hallelujah.


So there's how God created us and we


choose to function that way. Say I


choose to function that way. I choose to


function that way. I choose to function


that


way. Now I use Deborah story, the


Deborah story with Barak because it's


one of those uh stories for me that does


it because Barak knows how to fight.


He's a skillful warrior. But he says


Deborah if you will go with us it will


help this matter very


well and we have Judges chapter 5 verse


20 and it


says they fought from heavens that is


the stars in their courses fought


against Ceera. So it tells you that oh


there was a battle this Judges chapter


5. So you


have the


story but before chapter 5 is chapter 4


where look at verse uh Judges chapter


4 let's read verse


one and the children of Israel again did


evil in the sight of the Lord when


Hehood was there that was the former


judge and the Lord sold them you see


again that causative the Lord sold them


into the hand of Jabin king of Kaa how


that's how you read the question is how


did the Lord sell them out saying no God


allowed them to be sold is what say God


sold them into the hand of Jabin is it


God


that are you getting it. But he writes


the causative as if so God


is h permissive. God is in the


permissive tense aware of what is


happening but is writing it as


causative. The Lord sold them into the


hand of Jabin, king of Canaan that


reigned in Hazel, the captain of whose


host was Cesaria, which dwelt in Haroset


of the Gentiles. and children of Israel


cried unto the Lord for he had 900


chariots of iron 20 years he mightily


oppressed the children of Israel and


Deborah a prophetess the wife of Lapid


dot which we heard a lot of criticism


recently what is who is Lapidot where is


Lapid


dot well some teachings are not just


from God which one is what what did


Lapid now do you now who is Lapidot


where is Lapid why is he not


Tomorrow you hear people say things like


you are against women say no I'm not


against women. How can that teaching not


show that you are against women? How


does that not show that you have an


issue against


women? Must the man be present? Can't


the the man is so secure that he can


stay in the shadows while the wife is


visible. Now you today modern man


reading it now you are asking where is


Lapidot? What a woo man. Ah ah where you


now get your own findings from? And yet


his name is mentioned. His name is


mentioned because he must have been a


wonderful person. That's as simple and


they didn't say much about him. So why


do you not get all the other details


from Bible


interpretation? And she dwelt under the


palm tree. So she it means she was a


woman of the unseen world. That's what


it means in that world view. I've told


told you before under the tree. under


the trees as trees are contact point to


the unseen world is same thing in that's


why you notice the bin wants to be


connected we go and climb tree you see


tree at a d you see tree all is ancient


world ancient that's why I call city of


bin so you see allows you see all those


ancient


practices where there are sacred grounds


so those trees in ancient times some


other cultures in those ancient time we


car faces of the deities into the trees.


It's just to show you that because they


had the concept of a world tree. The


world is like a tree. So when you now


see a tree that means this represent


contact into the unseen. Of course not


all


trees I I hope you get what I'm not


saying it is so


physically. Aha. But those worippers


have that idea because there's actually


some sense to it but it should not be


taken beyond


proportion. Yeah.


because it shields you against the sun.


It's obviously a force. So something


that can stop the power of the sun is


how the ancient men since this tree can


shield us from the power of the sun.


There's something about it and so it


became an access point and even people


like to hide under shade because you


know how important shades are though we


remove all of them today in the name of


industrialization. It allows us again be


prone to many sicknesses. how you should


build where the building should face we


don't care about those things we just


build


anyhow put trees in a compound you say


no everybody want to do interlocking


ties to lock your health too sometimes p


sand there's a reason why our


forefathers live longer but they are


barefoot we touch the natural ground it


does something to your age where your


leg touch sand lie always pal pom pom


sock shoe


boot


Okay, let's look at this. Uh 15 more


minutes, 10 more minutes. And she dwelt


under the palm tree of Deborah between


Rama and Beth in Mount Ephraim. And the


children of Israel came up to her for


judgment. And she sent and called Barack


the son of


Abinoam, and said unto him, Hath not the


Lord God of Israel commanded, saying, Go


draw towards Mount Tab. So all the long


story I will draw unto thee to the river


Kishon Cer the captain of Jabin's army


with his servants and I will deliver him


into thine hang and Barack said unto her


if thou will go with me then I will go.


If thou will not go with me then I will


not go. And she said I will surely go


with thee. This was the game changer


cuz you will follow. Of course she's not


a


warrior. So Barack called all the tribes


together. As the story went, jump to


verse 22. And behold, as Barack pursued


Ceera, Jai came to meet him and said


unto him, "Come, and I will show thee


the man whom thou seekest. And when he


came into her tent, behold, Ceera laid


dead, and the nail was in his temples in


the in the head. So God subdued on that


day Jabin the king of Canaan before the


children of Israel and the hand of


children of Israel prospered and


prevailed against Jabin. So if you read


this whole story it looks so


normal until you now have Deborah Judges


chapter 5. Then sang Deborah and Barak


the son of Abino on that day saying


praise ye the Lord for the avenging of


Israel. Yeah, all you kings give oh ye


princes. So she began to sing about what


God has


done. They chose new gods. Then was war


in the gates. Was there a she or spear


seen among 40,000 in Israel? So there


was no sheed or spear in the hand of


40,000 persons. My heart is towards the


governors of Israel that speak ye they


that delivered from the noise. So awake


awake. So verse 12 of awake awake awake


awake. alter a song arise barak and lead


thy captivity captive thou son of Abino.


Now underline that phrase captivity


captive a phrase I will use for Jesus


upon his rising up from hell he ascended


up on high let captivity and gives to


men. Again you see the supernatural


worldview


context then he says out of Ephrame was


a root. It goes


on blessed be


this. Then jump to verse


20 or let's read 19. The kings came and


fought then fought the kings of Canaan


in Tanakh by the waters of Megiddo. They


took no gain of money. They fought from


heaven. The stars in their causes fought


against Isera. So if you don't


understand this use of the word star it


will look like what is this


saying? Seem to make no sense. So no, it


made a lot of


sense because the


stars is used to explain the host of


heaven. Supernatural beings are called


stars. Job 38:7 when the morning stars


sang together and all the sons of God


shouted for joy. Why are they called


morning star? Ancient men ancient


thinking because the morning star is the


first star you see when you wake up in


the morning. So the supernatural beings


were made before man. So they were there


before the dawning of man. Man came to


meet them at the dawn of time. So they


are called morning stars. Allow that.


Don't say is it physical star? It's not


physical star that they were referring


to. Is the same thing with um psalm 147


verse4. He telled the numbers of the


stars. He called them all by name. It is


now when the very first time we saw the


word star was in Genesis chapter 1 and


verse 16. God made two great lights. The


greater light to rule the day and the


lesser light to rule the night. He made


the stars also. So he called the host of


heaven stars. That's why moon sun can


also be called


stars. Sorry that one is not Bible. That


one is normal common sense teachings


that we have from uh the astronomy


classes and all of those things they


teach that you can call the sun a star


you can call the moon a star. All right.


So but there are also stars that is


normal. So the ancient men seem to know


that and this is how Moses writes the


scene and the unseen word together in


the creation story. We'll come back to


it. Now see that same host of


heaven. See that same host of heaven


phrase. Genesis 2:1. Thus the heavens


and earth were finished and all the host


of them. Then we now


have Deuteronomy


4:19. Just write the references down.


Host of heaven because of time. Let's


this where we begin on Wednesday so that


I can now enter the theology properly of


un onces.


And lest thou lift up thine eyes into


heaven. And when thou seeest the sun,


the moon, the stars, and all the host of


heaven, shouldest be driven to worship


them, and serve them, which Lord thy God


had divided unto the nations among the


whole heavens. So people were worshiping


it, not physical someone and stuff, but


what it represented because the host of


heavens represent supernatural beings.


Look at it. First Kings 22. Now we saw


the Lord. So you may say, okay, that was


idol. Look at Micaiah. He's having a


vision. And he said verse 17, I saw all


Israel scattered upon the hill as sheep


that have no shepherd. And the Lord


said, these have no master. Let them


return every man to his house in peace.


And the king of Israel said unto


Jehoshaphat, did I not tell thee that


thou he will prophesy no good concerning


me but evil? And he said, Yeah, thou


therefore the word of the Lord. I saw


the Lord sitting on his throne and all


the host of heaven standing by him on


the right and on


his so you believe physical sun and star


standing to the right and the left of


God's throne wow no so he's using that


phrase host of heaven because of what it


represent so there's physical host of


heaven and there's spiritual host


physical host of heaven is a physical s


and star but the scene is used to


explain


the unseen. Thank


you. So the word host of


heaven. Nehemiah chapter


9 and verse 6. Thou even thou art Lord


alone. Thou has made heaven the heaven


of heavens with all their hosts, the


earth and all things that are therein,


the seas and all that is therein. And


thou preservest them all. And the host


of heaven worshipeth


thee not physical s. So supernatural


being are called host of heaven. Did you


get it? All


right. Psalm 33:6. By the word of the


Lord were the heavens made and all the


host of them by the breath of his mouth.


So he made the


host. the host. Just like we saw in


Isaiah 45:12, I have made the earth. I


created man upon. I even I even my hand


have stretched out the heavens and all


their hosts have I commanded. So he made


the host. The


host, the


host, the


host. Hallelujah.


Luke 2:3 and suddenly there was with the


angel a multitude of the heavenly host


praising God and saying so nobody thinks


to stars here glory to God in the


highest so heavenly host supernatural


beings heavenly host it is so in the old


and new testament books heavenly host


heavenly host and they are with us


hallelujah Yeah,


we have innumerable


company. Say innumerable.


So there are


many there are many


oh supernatural beings that God created.


Hebrews Hebrews 12 and verse 22. But you


have come unto Mount Zion, the city of


the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem,


and to an innumerable company of angels.


And the angels of the Lord encamp round


about them that fear him. Abi. So just


like we started our text this morning


that Colossians chapter one I want you


to be conscious this week of what is


protecting you who God has assigned as a


defense with you. So just like we have


that Colossians


1:16 it helps my thinking when I put it


like this when he says for by what is


created in heaven are in the earth


visible. Now notice what he calls


thrones, dominions, principality and


powers. That's what I have with me this


week.


So I have thrones with me. So if there's


anything like altar, those not apostle


that they are alter. I have thrones with


me. I have dominions with me. I have


principalities. I have powers with me.


And that's how it is every day. That's


how it is every day.


innumerable company with me every day.


Forever in protection. Forever. Forever


in


safety. Hallelujah. Stand on your feet.


Lift your hands. Thank you,


Jesus. I'm


conscious of the sin and the unseen


world. And I know how to live in the two


worlds in heaven and on earth. I know


how to function in heaven. I know how to


function on the earth. I know the normal


order of the earth. And imagine if you


don't know the normal order of the


earth. How you know the normal order of


the heavens? How does one rule over the


other? If you don't know


how the normal order of the earth is in


natural normal things, you don't know


how normal things is, then how will you


now know for the other one? But thanks


be to God that we are learning this


series will know it how both worlds


function. Amen. and will be wise and


strong with the powers God has given to


us. And when we see things go trying to


go contrary against the normal order


that we want, we say, "No, you ought to


go no further. It ought to be like


this." We can superimpose God's


power. Amen. Superimpose God's power,


God's wisdom upon every situation and


things will get better for us. Lift your


hands and thank him. Thank him this


morning. I live with the wisdom of


God. I walk in the power of God's


spirit. I walk in the power of God's


spirit. Thank you, Jesus. Free though.