service. The things that ought to be


said will be said. The things that ought


to be done will be done to the praise


and glory of your name. We open


ourselves for miracles, healings,


direction,


lifting,


and we know that we truly shall be


edified.


Our needs are met supernaturally as your


word is taught and even via the ministry


of angels. Amen. Amen. Amen. God bless


you. Have your seats.


Amen.


All right. Again, we said what is unseen


forces? We said unseen forces. It's uh


unseen influences and power. And that


will be the unseen influences and power


that be of God


or of supernatural beings which refer to


as angels either good or bad and man


acting in the acting with power also


either good or bad and because a man


negatively which will say magicians,


sorcerers And all of those people acting


in power against you is also an unseen


force against you. I be so unseen forces


deals with the influences and the power


of the unseen. And that unseen could


come from God himself or from


supernatural beings, angels, spirits or


from man


acting according to how he was made.


Amen. And in the course of this series,


I've taught you about the forces of time


and chance, how they ought to be for


your favor. Amen. The ordinances of


heaven, how they rule the earth. We've


talked also um


the


flowing from what we did extensively


more last year. We repeated again the


nature and the function of supernatural


beings. Hallelujah. And I gave you uh


six nature terminology that they are


called spirits, they are called heavenly


beings, they are called stars, coke


beings, holy ones, kadoshim and they are


called the use of the word gods. G


supernatural beings were called gods,


sons of god also make it six. And we


looked at function terminologies like we


said we taught this extensively more


last year uh theologically more last


year and we also looked at the function


of supernatural being and we looked at


angel is a function technology is not a


name as it were a function is just the


same way a doctor is a function


technology however the person can be


called a doctor however it is a function


amen so angel is function technology


engines and the uh that's the function


technology we looked at um watchers host


Chevro beams


ministers and one I mentioned last year


mediators angels are mediators and


that's one of the most uncommon part


people do not understand about the


function of angels that angels mediate


angels mediate about matters intercedes


about matters because there is like a


law court setup and I've taught you that


also extensively last year so that we do


not uh break off from our line of


thought because we're concluding what we


have been teaching for some months now.


Amen. Hallelujah. So we also had had to


look at


the authority we have in the three words


in heaven on earth and under the earth


we have authority in the name of Jesus.


And um I told you that for if for any


reason you ever fear the devil something


is fundamentally wrong. If you ever fear


the powers of darkness, there should be


an excitement that comes to you when you


hear something is caused by the devil


because that means you don't have any


issue. Should have you should be more


bothered when somebody else is using


common sense or human power or will or


strategy than when you hear that this


thing is they are calling your name


somewhere. They are stabbing mirror.


That one is not something to to lose


sleep over.


because you have authority over all


devils and you must learn to use your


authority authoritatively. Then I also


told you to be careful about that um uh


over sab theology that has this idea


that there is nothing like uh


Satan attacking people or affecting


people. That is not true in scriptures.


In fact, Jesus whom we teach and preach


said, "Ought not this woman whom Satan


has bound


this 18 years be loose from my


infirmity." Some pastors teach in a very


weird way like maybe they don't have


members or something or they don't know


what is happening in the world. Many


lives have been destroyed. Maybe because


they don't pray, maybe because they


don't have uh the spirit of sin and


knowing because any person who functions


by revelation should know that people's


lives have been messed up a lot.


However, that doesn't mean that the


Christian is under that. And we said the


only place a Christian is under those


things is in ignorance and unbelief


because ignorance and unbelief put you


in Satan's domain or Satan's scope of


operation. But we are not in ignorance


or unbelief. Hallelujah. We are not in


ignorance or unbelief. We are not in


ignorance or unbelief of God's word.


We're not. We know who we are. And we


said the truths of who we are are


appropriated in our living. We must


appropriate it. We must so it it will do


nothing to you to just say this is who I


am in Christ and you aren't doing


something with it


because it's one thing again which has


brought people to that place where they


say all these new Christian realities


count me out of it because I know too


many powerless people doing I know who I


am. I know who I am. Sorry we don't know


those people. We are not one of those


people because when we say we know who


we are, we actually know who we are. Is


not something we are paring is something


that we actually are. Amen. And once you


are very conscious of that identity of


who you are in Christ Jesus and you live


and walk like that, you will notice that


you would walk in dominion over


everything contrary. Amen. Hallelujah.


Ephesians chapter one


Paul was very loud about the power we


have and we also explore that in this


series that six grace six Greek words he


used to explain the power we have in


Ephesians 1:19 what be the exceeding


greatness of his power to us what who


believe according to the working of his


mighty power so exceeding greatness of


his power exceeding the word hoop the


power exceeds target then use another


word the greatness there's nothing


beyond the hand of God the where you say


uh I want to be a great footballer like


um Lena Mercy, Cristiano Ronaldo, they


are the great. Hallelujah. Pelle,


Maradona, the old men before the older


generations, you could mention names.


The great now even is there something


that God cannot do? If there's something


God cannot do, Baba, you will die with


it. But glory be to God, there's nothing


God's power cannot do. Hallelujah. So we


looked at that word the magnitude


megatus in the Greek the word uh


greatness then he used the word power


duna means explosion explosiveness of


almightiness which deals with ability


then he used the word walking energy and


I told you there is no working power


supply in any nation even if it goes off


in for 5 seconds in 2 years in 10 years


that means it's not working but god's


power is always working there's no


second I call that maybe it's like bad


going from one journey to another


journey that he will not answer. No, the


power of God is always on. It's us many


times that that switches it off.


We we are the ones that go on and off,


but the power of God is always on.


There's no time. The power of God is not


operative energy


is always working. Amen. And so it is


you that determine how much you took


from that energy. So if you took I pass


my neighbor generator from the exing


greatness of the power. That's why you


couldn't power the things you wanted to


power. But


the overhead cables from the reservation


is exceeding. There's nothing you cannot


carry. So you're the one that use it to


carry only uh


you're the one that used to carry only


your lights. You're the one that used to


carry only two bulbs.


Use it to carry many other equipment.


Amen. So the working of his mighty


powers of the word cltos is then the


word kto. So we look at all those words


to explain what you have in Christ


Jesus. You have authority, you have


power. Amen. And we looked at uh the


structure of the powers of darkness.


Whether there are beings with


geographical dominion, you have


authority over them. In fact, G and is


and we look at that again on Wednesday.


Uh though we talked about it before, we


look at that again on Wednesday. That is


not your prayer that defeats territorial


spirit. is that Jesus in his


resurrection


made all of the gods of the nations to


be illegal. That's why the statement we


use now for preaching the gospel is


reclaiming the nations because no nation


belongs to the devil. Jesus by his blood


has paid the price. Amen. Many times


pastors speak so much about paying a


price. Paying a price. And over the


years I've had to teach you that the


price for spiritual power is grace.


Anything that you are paying pain pain


is why there's so much boast you know


how many years I fasted I fasted 40


years you know how many years days I


fasted sorry of my own is freely given


because


it is called a gift of the spirit not


the wages of the spirit first commission


12 called it the gift of the spirit amen


for my own is a gift is not a wages is


not a salary is a gift hallelujah and we


labor in the grace of God. It's an


advantage. Paul says, "I labored more


than them." Yeah, the grace of God I


labored. So, we labor in the grace does


not mean that we are working so that God


will give us what we already have. No.


So, every Christian has the same Holy


Spirit, but we don't use the Holy Spirit


the same way. Again, that becomes the


difference. All of us have the gifts of


the spirit, but we don't use it the same


way. And that's where we labor. I choose


to go deeper in these things.


Hallelujah. Praise God. And we have also


had to correct that notion because most


people have it. It's I committed a


crime. I cast out a devil. I don't have


rank for. We don't do that nonsense


here. We don't do that nonsense here.


And not because we're trying to get


anybody angry with any pastor, any


apostle or any preacher, but there are


statements that make Satan too powerful.


There are things people say that brings


you under bondage without you even


knowing. And there is no scriptural


precedent for it. So


then we also talked about how you must


be expectant and for the being wise and


strong in his power which has been our


focus because Ephesians chapter 5. So we


just begin from there again trusting


I can't do a thorough recap because you


should listen to the whole message and


it has been enlightening thus far.


Ephesians chapter 6


and verse 10 it says finally my brethren


be strong in the Lord and in the power


of his might be. So it's possible to be


weak in the Lord. I choose not to be. I


choose to be strong in the Lord because


the word he uses there to be strong


shows that you can be weak. You can uh


so I choose to be finally my brethren be


strong in the Lord and in the power of


his might. I choose to be strong in the


Lord. He says put on the old armor that


you may able to stand against the ws of


the devil for wrest not against flesh


and blood but against principality


against powers. And we said that it


didn't say if you choose not to wrestle.


It made it very clear that we wrestle.


So it's not I don't want to I want to


being born again already brings you into


conflict with the powers of darkness.


And many times where we can be fixated


on Mr. this, Mrs.


uh sister this, this person this. But


there is many times a spirit working


through these individuals that makes the


work hard for you or difficult for you.


And we had had to look at behind the


scene that there is a there are many


times there are operations happening


behind the scene. So people just wake up


and I gave you the job setup look like


he just woke up and things were just


happening. Job just woke up and things


were just happening. But if we did not


have that background story, it would


have looked like is just this is just


luck or accidental. But it was


orchestrated


supernaturally orchestrated by the


devil. And but things were just


happening like that. Amen. So there's a


lot to learn. And so we began to look at


uh


how we engage, how we what we can do to


engage in being wise and strong with his


power. And


we've looked at faith. We've looked at


the place of prayer. But before I go


further, just to reiterate some of the


things that we have said about the


ministry of angels thus far. Uh and also


how we can have an advantage because


that that supernatural advantage can be


found in all things. Amen. Hebrews 1:14


says, "Are they not all ministering


spirits sent to minister for them who


shall be what?


Hears of salvation." So angels minister


for us. Angels minister for us. And in


fact uh we must be conscious and I said


if we are not conscious of the ministry


of angels, if we are not conscious that


I have supernatural advantage, we're not


conscious that uh of the power of God.


Many times in our lives, we will just


live our lives without that assistance,


without that aid and without that help.


So must be conscious of it. We know that


angels deliver messages or even bring


what we call direction.


Amen.


And I'm conscious of that because I


think that is the most common uh


activity of supernatural beings


or ministering spirit. One of the most


common activity is bringing messages to


you. And I think that is one of the most


common uh I'm now sent from God. You see


that uh in Luke chapter 1 for Mary, for


Zachariah,


an angel was sent with this message. The


same thing with Acts chapter 10.


For Cornelius,


an angel brought a message AB saying


unto Cornelius. Acts 10:3 and for


send for job send for Peter. So send men


to job to call for Peter. I mean even in


Acts chapter 8 verse 26 we saw the angel


said to Philip join yourself to that


chariot.


Arise go towards the south onto the way


that go down to Jerusalem. So an angel


told him to go towards the wilderness


where he later joined himself to the


chariot. So messages direction can come


from the ministry of angels.


Are you following? Yes sir. All right.


So and when we say angels like we said


it's a function terminology. However,


it's also used to describe the whole


ministry of God. If you want to speak in


a more exact manner, we just use spirit,


ministering spirit or use those any of


those other six terminology, sons of God


phrasing used to explain them.


Hallelujah. Angels deliver. That's very


common. We've even read some of those


references. Acts 12:7 where the chains


fell off Peter's hands and the angel


picked him and the Bible says the gate


opened on his own accord. What a massive


deliverance. What a massive deliverance.


So I expect deliverance. Now we didn't


teach these things for teaching sabi. So


in we've read different texts, so many


texts around these things for some


months now. Be conscious of it. Yes sir.


So there's no situation I'm in that I do


not expect God's mighty deliverance. No.


Then I'm also protected. Abby. Look at


numbers 22:23. We also read that where


the angel of God withtood balam on the


way. God can protect me. Hallelujah.


Acts 27:23 that that was also a


protection and later turned into a


deliverance.


Paul says, "The angel of the Lord whose


I am." And we read the whole of Acts 27.


In fact, we read it from 26 into 27. We


saw how his life was even first spared.


Everything was supernatural because


those men vowed that they would not eat,


they will not drink until they killed


Apostle Paul. And it was supernatural.


And we also saw the place of the natural


and the supernatural not fighting.


There's a place of wisdom where Paul


knew to say, "No, no, no. If tell the


the centurion like this because if he


had said it another way the man would


not have would not have believed. So


there was a way that information was


communicated. Some people ah it's


supernatural. Hey the power of God is


working and they become foolish and


stupid in how they even relate and act.


They must you must know the the natural


place. We saw Esther also when I we read


almost the whole book of Esther. I will


give you the story line of the whole


book of Esther. You saw how she heeded


to what the chamberling was saying


because this person should know the king


better and this person is saying wear


this do this say no nobody can tell me


oh I know what God have said calm down


must because many persons have destroyed


their miracles that promotion that


intervention of God because they weren't


wise


they weren't wise amen they weren't wise


so we say angels can deliver angels can


protect say uh the Lord sent his angels


and shut the mouth of the lions. So many


times we mistake deliverance and


protection to mean the same thing. They


may be similar but they are not the same


thing. Even your dictionary will show


you a big difference between protect and


deliver because deliver is I'm already


in the situation and I'm brought out.


Protect means I was prevented from harm.


Are you following? And we see all of


them. So it must not be that I'm in a


situation and I'm brought out from the


situation. I'm delivered from the


situation. is that I'm also protected


that I'm in the situation did not even


happen.


That's also protection.


Amen. So very very very very important.


Very very important. Uh angels can


mediate for us


and this is one that people haven't


learned like I said when I was teaching


you about last year on that role.


Zechariah chapter 1. Zechariah chapter


1.


Zechariah chapter 1 and verse 8. I saw


by night, behold, a man riding upon a


red horse, and he stood among the mital


tree that were in the bottom, and behind


him were there red horses, speckled and


white. Then said, I, "Oh my Lord, what


are these?" And the angel that talked


with me said unto me, I will show thee


what this be. And the man that stood


among the might tree answered and said,


These are they whom the Lord has sent to


walk to and fro the earth. And the


answer the and they answered the angel


of the Lord that stood among the mighty


tree and said, "We have walked to and


fro through the earth, and behold, all


the earth sitth still and is at rest."


Verse 12. Then the angel of the Lord


answered and said, "Oh Lord of hosts,


how long will thou not have mercy on


Jerusalem?" That is intercession. "How


long will thou not have mercy on on


Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah


against which thou has had in the nation


this three score and 10 years


and the Lord answered the angel that


talked with me with good words and


comfortable words." So you see angels


mediate over matters. The same thing Job


was requiring when he says if there be a


an interpreter


that is a supernatural function he was


using there. So one that can mediate


that will pull me out from the pit.


Amen. And there are such conversations


we talk about the ministry of of a


prophet who is a prophet one who hears


divine conversations. What are those


divine conversations? God supernatural


beings. So there's a lot of chatter


happening in the realm of the spirit, a


lot of information, a lot of words going


back and forth. Amen. And when you


understand this major part, you realize


that supernatural he said no this is in


fact is that same um scenery that we


have what was done unto him say nothing.


Ah that's why the king could not sleep


that night. that was also why is the


king particular of particular with what


was done unto him


what was done unto him so it was not


fair it's not fair a book of remembrance


was opened onto you see that set up


Genesis to Malachi that is the ministry


of angels that is the ministry of angels


hallelujah we must be conscious that we


have intercession


if there is accusation by supernatural


by by devils and demons. Then there is


intercession by good angels. And this is


one area most believers are not


conscious of.


Many times you just praying mercy,


mercy, mercy. The angels know how to


take it a bit deeper and say this thing


ought to be so for her. This thing ought


to be so for him. There are things you


enter and receive that you know you are


not qualified for. It is say no this do


it for this one do it for him do it for


her. Amen. Must be conscious of such


ministry. Amen.


Angels can work signs for you. In fact


the whole Exodus journey we saw signs


and wonders and that will bring so many


things. You can put so many things in


that list. Walking signs and wonders.


And we've also this I'm just


highlighting things I have said so far


in this series in case you didn't write


it one by one. This is what I'm doing


for you. All right? In case you didn't


write because we've looked at angels


working signs and wonders. Signs and


wonders. And there is no end to the


wonders. As long as it's a miracle. Ah,


as long as it's a wonder. Ah, put my


name there. Supernatural beings are


involved in working wonders like that.


Amen. Amen. are involved in walking


wonders like that.


Look at all the things that happened in


the Exodus journey. It says by the angel


that deliver them. So the ministry of


angels was very active in all of those


signs. In Exodus 14 said the Lord shall


fight for you and you shall hold your


peace. And you go to verse 18. And the


Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord


when I've gotten my horn upon favor upon


his chariot and his horsemen. And the


angel of God which went before the camp


of Israel removed and went behind them


and the pillar of cloud went from before


their face and stood behind them. So


there was a lot happening with the


ministry of angels. You'll see how many


times the word angel is used in that


text. Even to the book of numbers, they


would mention how the angels of God were


loud in delivering them. And when we


cried unto the Lord, Numbers 20:16, he


heard our voice and sent an angel and


has brought us forth out of Egypt. And


behold, we are in Kadesh, a city in the


uttermost of thy border.


So they were very conscious that through


Moses there was a lot of ministry of


angels delivering them. So you see the


phenomenon of the deliverance of what


happened to them in journey captured a


lot by David in the psalms. They are


closing all way out supernatural. Let's


read some of that psalms and see


something that David highlighted.


Psalm 105.


Hallelujah.


105.


Are you there?


Verse 13. And when they went from one


nation to another, from one kingdom to


another people, he suffered no man to do


them wrong. Yay, he reproved kings for


their sake


saying touch not my anointed and do my


prophet no harm. You know this is the


whole nation that is calling anointed


because Moses said Israel is God


speaking says Israel is my son even my


firstborn. So the whole nation was the


anointed of God. All right. Moreover, he


called for a famine upon the land. So he


goes on just giving uh different


context. Verse 26, he sent Moses his


servant and everyone whom he has chosen.


They they showed his signs


among them and wonders in the land of


Ham sent darkness and made it dark.


Rebel, he turned their waters into


blood. The land brought forth frogs. 31


He spake and they came divert.


He keeps mentioning different things. 37


He brought them forth also with silver


and gold and there was not one feeble


person among their tribes. Egypt was


glad when they departed for the fear of


them fell upon them. Is this


supernatural? Yes, sir. He spread a


cloud for a covering and fire to give


light in the night. The people asked and


he brought quail and satisfied them with


bread from heaven. Again, ministry of


angels was the wind was blowing. All


right? And he remembered his promise and


Abraham his servant. And he brought


forth his people with joy and his chosen


with gladness and gave them the land of


the hidden. and they inherited the labor


of the people.


See so much of what he says.


So it is possible to read all of this


and just miss out on the fact that


there are miracles here.


There are miracles here. Yes, sir. Amen.


There are miracles here. Miracles here.


Different kinds of miracles.


Deuteronomy 29.


Deonomy 29


and verse 5


or let's do from verse uh


two. And Moses called unto all Israel


and said unto them, you have seen all


that the Lord did before your eyes in


the land of Egypt unto Pharaoh and unto


all his servants and unto all his land.


the great temptations which thine eyes


have seen, the signs and those great


miracles. Even Moses knew it was a great


miracle. Yet the Lord had not given you


an heart to perceive, and eyes to see,


and ears to unto this day. I have led


you 40 years in the wilderness. Your


clothes are not waxing old upon you, and


thy shoes is not waxing old upon thy


foot.


Ye have not eaten bread, neither have


you drunk wine or strongly, that you


might know that I am the Lord. So see


that ye have


That Deuteronomy 29:5,


your clothes are not waxing old upon you


and your shoes is not. Which kind of


miracle is this one? Is it that as they


are growing their shoes are growing with


them


like this Lord Nemiah 9:21 the same


thing is repeated. So see it's not a


mistake. Nemiah 9:21. Yeah. 40 years did


thou sustain them in the wilderness. I


expect this kind of sustainers.


I expect it every time.


Most people speak of uh mana and quail


as if it was a a a one day something. It


was not a 10 day something.


It was 40 years something. No.


40 years did thou sustain them in the


wilderness, so that they lack nothing.


Their clothes wax not old, and their


feet swelled not.


I believe, oh, I believe. I believe. I


expect such signs and wonders.


Yes. Oh,


I expect such


Expert such such expert such.


Psalm 78


verse 10. They kept not the covenant of


God and refused to walk in his law and


forgot his works and his wonders that he


showed them. Marvelous things did he in


the sight of their fathers in the land


of Egypt in the field of Zion. He


divided the sea and caused them to pass


through it. He made the waters to stand


as an heap. In the daytime also he led


them with a cloud and all the night with


a light of fire. He cleaved the rocks in


the wilderness and gave them drink as


out of great depths. He brought streams


also out of the rock and caused waters


to run down like rivers.


He says that they sin yet more against


him. They tempted God in their heart


asking me for their loss. Yay. They


spoke against God. They said, "Can God


furnish a table in the wilderness?


Behold, he smoked the rock out smote the


rock that the waters gushed out and the


streams overflowed.


Can he give bread also? Can he provide


flesh for his people?" Therefore the


Lord heard this and was wrought. So a


fire was kindled against Jacob and out


of anger they they were being fed.


Imagine what you can do in faith.


Imagine what God can do in his great


pleasure towards you because of even God


said enough is enough. All this can I


do? Can I do can I do this? Can I do


this? Can I do this? You will eat bread.


It will come out on your nose.


So imagine what God can do in his great


kindness towards you. I expect such I


expect such all the days of my life. I


expect such


such and in and for all of us in the new


covenant. God's kindness and grace is


perpetually towards us. I expect such I


expect such because I have abundance of


grace in Christ Jesus. So I expect such


I expect to see the wonders of God. And


that wonders of God is also explained as


the wonders of heaven.


The wonders of heavenly beings. The


wonders of his mighty power. I expect


it. I expect to see the wonders of his


power. I expect it. Note the word


expect. I expect to see it. I expect to


see it.


Every week I expect good. I expect good.


You know Robert when he began his


healing revival used to always say


expect. You must expect good. Expect a


miracle. Expect a healing. Expect good.


You must always that was his mantra.


Expect you must expect good. Expect a


healing. Expect a expect


I'm ready.


The words of our monkey said, "When I go


for a crusade, I'm looking at where's


the key miracle? Where's the healing? I


I come to every meeting with my bow and


my arrow. I'm ready to shoot." You must


always expect. Expect the wonders of


God. Expect the wonders of God. Expect


the wonders of God. I expect it.


Signs and wonders.


signs and wonders


is with the ministry of angels.


Amen. Amen.


And I expect it.


I expect signs.


I expect it to.


So they work signs and wonders for us.


Amen. All manner of signs and wonders.


All manner of signs and wonders. All


manner of signs and wonders.


The ground opened up. Ah


Paul said to that man, you'll be blind


for a season. All manner of signs is a


sign is a wonder. Amen. Amen. I expect


miracles. I expect miracles. So the


angels of God are working miracles for


me every time. Another uh one that most


people are not so familiar with is that


angels protect your interest. They


protect your interest. They negotiate


for you. They are convincing people for


you. That's what they doing for that


brother. Marketing for him. They


negotiate for you. Angels negotiate for


you. Yeah, they do that. Matthew chapter


one, an angel of the Lord appeared to


Joseph and said, "Don't put her away.


Don't put her away. He's negotiating.


He's is speaking for our interest."


After that, in verse 24, he said he


heeded to what the angel said to him.


Don't don't don't don't do that. that


you want to do. Don't do it. Oh,


don't do it. Oh,


angels are


negotiating for me.


Yes. So,


I expect it to I expect it. I always


expect it. I always expect it.


Hallelujah.


Matthew 1 vers20. And while he taught on


these things, behold, the angel of the


Lord appeared unto him in a dream. St.


Joseph, thou son of the fear not to take


unto thee Mary thy wife


for that which is conceived in high is


of the Holy Ghost. Now we like to see


this uh oh it's about Jesus about Jesus.


See what the angel is doing there.


Don't change your mind on this thing.


We agreed 12 million. Don't change your


mind.


Do well. So in the ninth in the vision


of the n say it is 12 million. You


agreed. Why should you increase it to


14?


I expect it.


I expect it.


because the some of the testimonies I'm


going to share the people watching live


across the Nigeria all over the world


some of them are part of it that's why I


won't share it cuz they not say ah so


that's what happened to me ah


I expect it to angels will negotiate on


my matter well because they defend my


interest


they protect my interest


hallelujah they protect my interest in


fact that is how the ministry of angels


if you are using A concordance search


was first introduced to us in the Bible.


If you are using a concordance search,


Genesis chapter 16, look at the angel


defending Hagar. Hear that is not a


spiritual person like that?


And angel of the Lord found her by the


fountains of water in the wilderness by


the fountain the way of shore and said,


"Hagar Sarah's maid, whence comest thou


and whether will thou go?" And she said,


"I flee from the face of my sight." And


the angel of the Lord said unto her,


"Return to thy mistress, and submit


thyself under her." And the angel of the


Lord said unto her, "I will multiply thy


seed, and it shall not be numbered for


multitude." And the angel of the Lord


said unto her, "Behold, thou art with


child, and shall bear a son, and shall


call his name Ishmael, because the Lord


had heard thy affliction." Ah,


now this same Genesis chapter


Look at Genesis 21 again the same he and


Abraham verse 14. And Abraham rose up


early in the morning and took bread and


a bottle of water and gave it onto Hagar


and put it on her shoulder


and the child and sent her away. And she


departed and wandered in the wilderness


of Beeba. And the water was spent in the


bottle. And she cast the child under one


of the shrubs. And she went and sat her


down over against him in a good way of


as it were a bow shot. For she said,


"Let me not see the dead."


And she sat over against him and lifted


up her voice and wept. Look at the one


that God heard. And God heard the voice


of the lad.


And the angel of God called to Hagar out


of heaven and said, "What a dehagger.


Fear not, for God has heard the voice of


the lad where he is.


Defending the interest of a baby that


cannot talk that not say that cannot


baby the child is not doing anything.


God defends my interest.


We saw that again which is we explained


thoroughly the natur story in defending.


I will defend this and they will not


shoot one bow here. The same way they


came the same way they will go. The next


verse, then the angel of the Lord and


185,000 people say the Bible say and


there were corpses


there were corpses


in defending I defend this city. How the


Lord is defending me. Oh, he's defending


me. And when we see that defend, we made


it take it to protection. No, defending


my interest. My interest. He's defending


my interest.


M is defending my interest. Expect it.


Oh


uh if thou be the man of God, let's see


follow that story. The king said go and


confirm from Bal Echron if I will leave.


Then somebody met the people that the


king sent and said go and tell the king


that he will not come back from that


bed. Do you know what it means to send?


They are supposed to ignore what he said


and still go and consult by but they


went back that's first thing you know


about uh supernatural presence because


Elijah was so terrifying that what he


said made them to the king sent them


message they not obey the king again


they left and the man told them they


went back to so the king was now


wondering so you not go he said he would


not go again no describe the man they


said he had this the king sh is Elijah


oh he's Elijah Even the king knows


somebody that have that kind of status.


Everybody is the same. Everybody is the


same. Everybody's not the same. You can


say, "Ah, it's Elijah. It's Elijah." Oh


yeah. Go. 50 of you now go and bring him


for me. That's how the 50 people man of


God come down there say


that's actually what


if I be a man of God let fire come down


roast.


But what people are not seeing is that


the angel is defending his interest


because the second one the other 50 came


again the the captain and his 50 they


roast. The third one came and said let


the life


let the life of your servant be precious


in your sight. Then we now saw that


there was an angel there all along since


because Elijah carried the fire. No,


it's the supernatural being that is


walking that thing that he's saying if I


be a man of God. So we now saw it. There


are many texts like that. If not for


certain confrontations and interaction


would not have seen that there was an


angel behind the scene but they are


always expected.


The angel said followed him fearing


nothing. So he was defending


all along. Even though he was in fear of


these people may I don't know what they


may do to me. The angel was still


defending his interest.


Angels are defending my interest. Oh.


Hallelujah. Praise God. Negotiating


favorable things for me.


I've had people say, "Ah,


the Lord told me in a dream to do this


for you." I expect that thing.


I expect you to say I saw you in my


dream where I was told to me I sleep


angels of God are negotiating favorably


for me say this is this is a better


thing to if you do it like this it's not


better do it like that for him do it


like that for her do it like that for


her do it like that for him


the angels of God are putting things in


the heart of people for You they are


putting your thoughts in the hearts of


people.


Expect it. Oh,


when you expect it, you will see it


happen.


Amen. Amen.


The angels of God strengthen us.


We read different references for that.


He giveth uh you will not faint. He give


you strength. We saw uh even Luke where


Jesus prayed he was strengthened. I mean


the angels of God are supplying strength


to you supernatural strength. People


many times ask me how you able to do the


things you do because I have the


ministry of angels always strengthening


me. I'm always strengthened. I know this


is not my own power. You say how do you


do dises at the same time? So many of


these things. I have long ago seen how


angels supply strength. So


say ah this thing it has to be graceful


because ah no normal man can do these


things that you do. Yes. So is the


ministry of angels supplying strength.


Supplying strength


supplying strength is the same way even


strength for your feet not to slide. It


is God that guided you with strength.


No I I am strong for my destiny.


I have power for my destiny.


I'm strong. Oh, I'm strong. Yeah. And


we've talked several things about that.


Now, another part I had to show you also


in this series was that Genesis 24 which


is I will put it number eight for angels


help your prosperity,


your success, your prosperity. Don't


fear that word. I've told you stop.


Don't demonize the word prosperity. I've


had to correct many in the christoentric


cycle that have such a demonization of


that word prosperity. Just teach what


you are teaching. Explain what you're


explaining. You don't have to be uh


fighting and tampering with what angels


care about your prosp because the word


prosperity I've told you for I think two


years ago last year we also did a series


on that progress. We've had to teach


these things again and again


doing well doing big things.


Wow. Had to teach it because once you


have a wrong once you have there's


something called limiting beliefs. When


your limiting belief now comes from


Bible and you use God to support a


limiting me that maybe God doesn't want


me to do well. No. That's why the


Kenneth and Gloria Copeland used to


always say it as a mantra. The will of


God is prosperity. Don't change it.


Don't say no no no. The will of God is


healing. No, leave it like that. There


are some things you should not change


because you are not the materialistic


person. So why you always trying to say


no leave the the materialistic people


that twist Bible verses for money their


God is their belly they will get their


own judgment but that's not what you do


that's not what we do here either don't


be against because because the word


prosperity is simply making progress is


simply doing well so is it that you


don't want to do well in life is it that


you are telling people that God doesn't


want them to do well in life are you an


atheist


it makes no sense that a pastor will


teach people so the problem is they


already have created


a monster of a word called prosperity


and they trying to support it. The word


prosperity in their mind already means


something else. They have made


prosperity mean materialism.


So every time they see the word


prosperity they are scared. Ah hey don't


fall into that trap. One day you will


know what I have done for you people in


this ministry cuz sound doctrine like


many persons who teach sound doctrine


don't know how to talk about prosperity


because let not let people not think


I've joined why am I defending myself


let I've joined them sir think whatever


you want to think we join join join you


want to join poverty


don't join don't but there's always that


fear why come there's not that fear when


we talk about healing


talk


How come when we talk about joy, when we


talk about peace, but once you hear the


word prosperity, you just immediately be


careful. Be careful. Why am I always


being careful when it comes to


prosperity?


Amen. Amen. Yet we see people weak. I


can't come to church because of of


hustle. They say we should not talk


about money in church. We will talk


about it.


People can't come to church. They hustle


enough say pastor understand. God, I'm


sorry. I cannot come to church again


this week. money.


He say we should not talk about it. Is


obviously disturbing people and


affecting people's activities and all of


that. I saying no, we should talk about


it. But there's a proper place. God


wants you to have money. God is not


against you having money. The only


challenge is that people don't know the


text to use to teach it. So they use the


text that does not say so to teach it.


That's just a challenge. Amen. God wants


you to do well. In fact, you don't even


need a Bible verse to know that God


wants you to do well. You just need to


be a normal human being that is not mad


because that is not something you should


not serve anybody


that is against your progress. When they


say I'm against your progress, not the


enemy. If God is against your progress,


what is Satan now doing?


I now need a Bible verse to know God is


for my progress. Have they bewitched me?


I need a Bible verse now. So, it's


against me. Then we not say okay for


your progress you are scared let people


not think. You see how much demonization


that can come from doctrine when you


give people this air. No expect good


this week.


Amen.


The same way we wish people prosperous


new year. That's how we say prosperous


week for you. Amen.


Like I said when I told people that the


Lord said to us that this year is our


year of prosperity say


man of God you have always been a


teacher of the word and um I don't know


you you this this is a true story I'm


telling you so you have always been a


teacher of the word and um one who have


stood for uh doctrinal purity and I knew


where they go. I was just waiting and uh


and um


I I'm surprised seeing things about um


a year of prosperity


and um


I I had to check again if it's your post


if it's you if your account has been


hacked.


They go through that stress.


Nobody hackets my account.


That's the challenge. So I asked him,


"What do you have in mind?" When you


hear the word prosperity, he say, "You


know, we have to be careful." I said,


"No, you have to be. I don't have to be


cuz I want to prosper." So say he say we


I don't I'm speak for myself. We have to


be careful. I'm not careful for


prosperity.


I'm not careful for anything, sir. I'm


much more careful for prosperity. I know


I'm not careful.


What do you have in mind? It was


materialism we had in mind. So I now ask


him, is everything okay with you? What


will make me a materialistic preacher?


Maybe you don't even know where we are


coming from. First and foremost, I


didn't start ministry because of money.


4 years we didn't take offering. Maybe


your own belly is your god. Maybe you


you I don't do that thing. I don't twist


scriptures for filthy look. If that's


what you are scared of, you say, "Oh,


uh, I just want I say no." Cuz I was


being careful. I said ah I don't see


relationship to avoid


what is being careful what are you


against making when I was done with him


of course he got the major correction


I'm like how come we are it's now later


don't know him that two he has been


demonized too by demon I mean bewitched


cuz when I was doing I realized that


really why am I really against the word


prosperity you ask me too


that's the same thing too I'm surprised


that you're against the word prosperity


because you are having something else in


mind.


As much as of course it won't turn


Genesis to Revelation and say uh uh you


ask me are you a prosperity preacher. I


wouldn't say I'm a prosperity preacher


and I won't say I'm a poverty preacher


either because I know the slant that you


will mean when you say prosperity


preacher because there are so many and


God has helped you. You have not seen


those people. There are many


when they start twisting scriptures


today for money, you will be shocked.


You'll be shock Isaac sing the land is


even learning. That one at least you can


just know that it's ignorance. Hey, you


will see a text you realize that from


there the man of God have raised money.


Those are the prosperity pictures that


we must oppose because that's not the


prosperity in God's word that they


explaining. You see when you hear a


preacher that says protective preacher


say say you don't have to walk, you


don't have to do anything. God is there


well and able to supply you. Even God is


wondering which God is that one that


well and able to.


So they don't know how to teach things


properly. So there's that idea that


notion people have in their heart again


about prosperity about progress. But the


word prosperity is simply just to have


progress. And I taught you that from


Joshua 1:8. For the last 2 years, we


have used that Joshua 1:8 to have a


proper understanding of prosperity.


Remember that.


Yeah. Joshua 1 vers8. Joshua 1 vers8.


We do seven into it. Only be thou strong


and very courageous that thou mayest


observe to do according to all the law


which Moses my servant commanded thee.


Turn not on me to the right or to the


left that thou mayest prosper without


thou goest. You see it you prosper


without thou goest.


That word prosper there used in verse


seven is the Hebrew word sakal to deal


wisely in the affair of life.


to deal to there's a that because this


is why I'm ending the series on this


note being wise and strong with his


power dealing wise


with the powers of God where I know how


to do what to do I know what to do and I


know how to do what to do


say ah pastor go things just look


different for him I know what to do


there's no time I don't know what to do


no situation I don't know what to


No time. I don't know what to do or how


to do what to do. No, I know. I've said


it so many times that in any situation


of life, I know what to do. I know how


to do what to do.


It says that thou mayest prosper prosper


whethersoever thou goest. Notice that


word prosper there. Verse 8, he now


says, "This book of shall out of thy


mouth, but th shall meditate therein day


and night, that thou mayest observe to


do according to all that is written


therein. For then thou shall make thy


way, you will make your way prosperous,


and thou shalt have good success." The


word prosperous there is the word


prosper, progress, rush. You would


advance.


You would advance. You make your way


prosperous.


It is used in that Genesis 24. So you go


to Genesis 24 now and see that story


that I used to show you prosperity


the servant of Abraham.


I'll do 21 then we'll go back. And the


man wondering at her held his peace to


know whether the Lord had made his


journey prosperous or not because


everything was happening too fast. He


was looking at Rebecca like ah has God


made this journey prosperous so easily


like this. See that word prosperous abi


that what you are going out for works is


that are you against that


have money everywhere but don't have


money in your heart in fact I even told


you you can have money in spoon and


plate if you like but the only place you


should not have money is in your heart


that one is called the rich fool it was


not rich towards God


we teach very well where you should


never be rich against God we should be


Preach towards God. Charge them. Paul


writing to Timothy say that's dragged


their ear. Charge them. Warn all the


rich people in your church. Charge them


that are rich in this world that they be


not highminded nor trust.


I know many rich people that don't trust


God.


They can already calculate p uh one


million in a month. All right. All


right.


All right. Budget. All right. That's


okay. So they have never believed God


because they have never carried the


burdens of others. Their life is only


about them and them. But when you start


living and caring about other persons,


when you start caring about other


project, you will see that some amount


you thought were big were not big. You


have been too selfish. And once you are


all about me me, you cannot think


kingdom financing. You cannot steal what


the riches that you have to bless people


because how much is really enough to


take care of only you and you. You leave


onto yourself too smallminded. God's


word hasn't worked on you at all. When


God will start working you will now know


that ah I need to be able to take care


of others too. Not just myself starting


point myself then he moves on to others


and I need to also be able to use my


money to serve God.


So the first prosperity message say we


serve God for things. No, we don't serve


God for things.


No. But can we use things to serve God?


Yes, we can serve God with things. But


we are not serving God for this. So when


they were all living Jesus told the


disciples, will you not also live? They


said, no, because he gave them bread,


they came. When they thought bread had


finished, they were all living. I said,


will you not also live? Peter say will


not live but die alone have the walls of


eternal life. That's why we followed


him. So the first gospel message say


come to Jesus he will give you the fruit


of the womb. No whether you come to


Jesus or not he will give you the fruit


of the womb. Come to Jesus he will heal


you. Come to Jesus he will do this. All


those things he did it for unbelievers


too. No the gospel is


don't come to Jesus he will heal you.


Don't come to Jesus he will give you but


if you come to him he will give you


eternal life. He will put his spirit


within you. He will make you a new


person. That is the fact of the gospel.


That's why the gospel is news to the


rich and the poor. Once you don't know


that, you will make the gospel only news


to the poor. So when you see a rich man,


you can't say anything. You stammer


my Jesus. You feel intimidated. No, the


gospel is news to everybody. It's the


message is news to everybody. The rich


man we we quiver we shake at the at the


hearing of the gospel because it's news


to him too. The poor man the same. The


message is in. So that rich he say he


was rich but not rich towards God. What


was his issue? He say oh so thou has


laid up enough goods take thy ease and


rest.


Say because he was not rich on said


tonight your soul is required of you.


And who shall these things be? Who shall


these things be? Say for the man was not


rich towards God.


That was the same place taught on


covetousness. A man's life does not


consist of the abundance of things he


possesses. That is proper understanding.


The Bible warns us against stinginess,


selfishness, greed


about uh the warning of um the love of


money is root of all evil was written to


a pastor because most pastors love money


and they twe scriptures because of


money. Say the love of money is root of


all evil of which many have pierced


themselves with many sorrow. People have


d even not just pastors now people have


killed their father and their mother


because of money. Yahoo plus yahoo


whatsoever


wicked people


that's


money. So money have made people do all


manner of evil. Amen.


Hallelujah.


But God wants us to prosper. God wants


us to do well, to succeed.


Amen. Genesis 24.


So look at that 21. Then notice before,


this always blows my mind that Abraham


sends his servant to go and get a wife


and he puts this supernatural force to


it. And the servant said unto him,


Penture the woman will not be willing to


follow me unto the land. Must I need


bring thy son again unto the land from


whence thou came? Verse six. And Abraham


said unto him, Beware that thou bring


not my son Ti again, and the Lord God of


heaven, which took me from my father's


house, and from the land of my kindred,


and we spake unto me, and that swear


unto me, saying, unto thy seed will I


give this land. He shall send his angel


before thee, and thou shalt take a wife


unto my son from tense, he shall send


his angel before thee. For wife to just


to guarantee the result, he put angel


inside the matter. Ah,


for wife.


Look at verse 40 to see that it was the


angel that guaranteed that result.


And I said unto myself, per the woman


will not follow me. And he said unto me,


the Lord before whom I walk with, send


his angel with thee and prosper thy way.


There's an angel prospering my way.


Mean I have seen him prospering my way.


And you don't whether you see with the


eye of the spirit or not there are


angels prospering your way. Be conscious


of it. Every day I'm as I wake up in the


morning I smile. There's always a smile


on my face. It's even is is reflex now.


I just wake I just smile. That week


again I'm always happy. I'm always


joyful. Every week I'm always expectant.


He has never left me without help.


Lord said to me, there is a rush. I've


seen it. That angel of the Lord


guaranteeing result, ensuring that


everywhere I turn, I prosper.


Whethersoever I turn, I prosper.


Hallelujah.


The Lord before whom I walk with, we


send his angel with with thee and


prosper thy way. Oh, this man is


thinking that everything I do, I applied


for this. I wanted this to work.


There's nothing in the last four years


that I've wanted to work that did not


work.


Never.


We can only delay the time but it will


work. Ah no no no it's either it work or


it work.


I'm conscious. So every time when I'm


seeing is looking like I what are you


people doing about this matter? I open


my eyes open the eyes of my spirit. I


see what what they do. They still go


walk or walk. How far say we have we


have run tirelessly trying to you


convince for that be conscious of the


ministry of angels.


Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. For you to


see progress in your journey.


Hallelujah.


Progress in your journey or your


progress in your journey. Progress.


Success. Progress in your journey. The


angels of God are guaranteeing that


result. Hallelujah.


Another thing we spoke about was Daniel


chapter 9.


Number nine, we spoke about


to give insight and wisdom.


Now, this is the reason why pastors must


must once in a while list out things


because it's now when you say when did


he say it? Were you sleeping in the


teaching? when we read all these texts


and I said different things you were not


taking notes because it's from listening


to the teachings father that I wrote out


all of these points I did not mention


prosperity before so it's now


because there are many things I we can't


say we can't mention because it's broad


that's why we say expect good


Daniel chapter 9


verse 20 and whilst I was speaking and


praying and confessing my sin and the


sin of my people Israel because he was


interceding for Israel and I'm and


presenting my supplications before the


Lord my God for the holy mountain of my


God. Yay whilst I was speaking in prayer


even the man Gabriel whom I have seen in


the vision at the beginning being caused


to fly swiftly touch me about the time


of the evening oblation. This is the


reason why people believe angels have


wings. I've told you before angels don't


have we did that last year. We did that


also uh three years ago where I taught


on angels in our series on supernatural


supernatural things. Yes. Now the only


angels that have wings are those trebing


type and they are not angels because a


ng l that is


uh uh hybrid creatures. They have this


and these features and I explained that


to you how that work because and those


are what we call throne guardians


because they guard sacra space. If you


always have the picture of angels with


wings in your mind that's why you are


not having angels walk with you. So


because every time you imagine angels


you always think feather feather fly.


They are not beds.


It's images metaphor. It's figurative.


Amen. They are not beds that are flying.


Why does it look new? Some people in


front look shocked. I've not said it


before.


Is that your expectation face? It look


like a confused face.


Look like I've not heard it before. Like


it's not my first time of seeing it.


Once you have that idea, they must fly.


They must fly. Is reason why some of you


have not received angels unaware?


I have at least four times. At least


four times. At least four times. and I


turned and I could not find the person.


At least four times in my life I've seen


that kind of thing. Unexplainable being


hospitable engaging strange people. You


don't I like who is this? What is


happening here?


Must be conscious of that. That angels


can come in human form. Appear in human


form which is what we mean by appear in


they can appear in human form. All


through scripture we saw that. That's


why I say demand men don't have wings.


And is do you think Daniel is stupid? He


used the word being made to fly to come


swiftly is what he's explaining.


Hallelujah. Not that you should always


be looking for feather.


And most of those drawings is not those


are that looks like cupid cu p I don't


know those things that's Greek


philosophy or Greek philosophy dispion


of angels. That is not Bible depiction


of angels


that we are shooting love and you are


blushing. No wonder angels are not


defending you. So because in your mind


they are one small babies with with with


pampers. How can those ones defend you?


How can those ones protect you when the


image you have of angels is that they


wearing pampers with with small arrow


shooting love?


[Music]


No wonder they cannot defend you. They


can't guarantee result.


It's romance that is defending you now.


You want romance to defend you and


oh angels of God are defending


to give insight. So look at the word he


now says verse 22 1 2 go everybody


and talk with me and said oh


the word skill is the Hebrew word sakal


which is the word use the tree to make


one wise I have now come to give you


wisdom to you will deal wisely now I've


come to give you wisdom


and understanding ing the Hebrew word


bina understanding you you can interpret


the complex you you know knowledge is


fact wisdom is application of fact


understanding is application of fact in


all the complexities of life in any


setting because I have understanding


whether we twist the setup or the


context to be something else I still


understand what you are trying to say


which is when you know you have


understood something you know just


because once we we when they want to


know if you have understood math now I


give you word problem you cannot now


solve it because you cram you don't


understand you only know you don't yet


when you understand if we if we twitch


it here and here you can still answer


because you have understanding say I've


now come to give you


hallelujah


I'm always conscious of those


withdrawers


to give meaning to what you have seen.


What have you seen? You notice in those


uh in Jeremiah also in that chapter one


the angels say what does it mean? This


is ask him what have you seen? Say this


is what he say look at what it means.


The angels of God are giving


interpretation and meaning to things.


That's wisdom. And that's one area we


were being loud with in this series.


Amen.


Angels contribute to council


resolutions. First Kings 22 19 to 23


council resolution divine council


resolution. So they contribute in the


divine council. Then at the end of the


day the resolutions that are concluded


on


in chapter 4 say this is by the decree


of the watchers. Angels contribute to


council resolutions. C O U N C I L to


divine council resolutions


because there is a heavenly cotle.


Hallelujah.


And they contribute in that they


contribute.


They contribute.


Are you yet? Yes, sir.


They contribute.


Hallelujah.


So we read that uh first kings 22:9 to


23 which is also in 2 Chronicles 18:18.


So there's that


resolution


and we must have that. We also saw that


in Isaiah chapter 6


that whole communication


Daniel chapter 7 the ancient of days


there was


members of the court I mean let me just


read that Daniel chapter 7 for uh and


quickly run out of there verse 9 I


beheld till the thrones were cast down


the ancient of days these seats whose


garment was white as snow and the hair


of his head like the pure wool. His


throne was like the fiery flame and his


wheels as burning fire. A fiery stream


issued and came forth from before him.


Thousands thousands ministered unto him


and 10,000 time 10,000 stood before him.


The judgment was set and the books were


opened.


So it looked like the court sat in


judgment. Abby,


that's a court setup. C O U R T as a


court setup.


Understand things like this.


We used the different words for assembly


last year and I showed you one of the


words for assembly is the word dean.


D I N.


There are different use of the word


assembly in the Old Testament text.


uh qua the word um


e d a h mo appointed place and I said


those different words for assembly


different kind of assembly then there's


an assembly that is used the word d i n


that's the way people are looking at me


sir


so there's a council set up sir


say council setup.


So there's the word the and assembly


council. There's the one s o I explained


that one and I said it is the uh it is


the council of the council. I think that


was the exact phrase that I used. So


when you say what was the what was the


conclusion from the meeting what what


was being said which is what is used in


the ministry of a prophet every divine


conversation you say has he stood in the


council of God you would have heard now


angels contribute in that council


resolution


the word congregation q a h a l then


another word the the assembled place of


meeting moed m o e different Greek


different Hebrew words used. So you see


in that Psalm 82, God stands in a


congregation. Congregation of the god.


So there's a say congregation use that


word if you are reading it in English.


Congregation, assembly of the gods. And


we read that Psalm 89, assembly,


congregation, those different


cuz if you are waiting to type C O U T


concordance, that's lazy way of studying


the Bible. But when you study that


assembly, that congregation, you will


see that setup that we're talking about.


Amen.


That's the word judgment there in Daniel


7:9 and 10. That what the judgment was


set. So there were smaller thrones


everywhere. Judgment, supernatural


beings contribute in that.


Hallelujah.


I expect good.


Another aspect most people don't know is


that they assist God in the governance


of the world. They assist in the


governance of the world. Created host


whether invisible or visible. So always


be conscious of that.


Amen. Amen. So they assist in God's


governance


of the human world. And this is one area


that most people are very clueless about


and we shouldn't be.


So


the Jon 32 world view I also had to


explain that Abby


that prince of Piadis. Now, of course,


with the work of Jesus on the cross,


they are defeated. All of those false


gods, all of those gods over the nations


that take worship has been defeated.


However,


there is such a ministry of angels in


the good part now. I mean that is still


active in assisting God because how is


God himself doing everything that is


saying he can but he does not need to


that's why he created angels they do all


of that so they do all of that ensuring


that at every not because he's not


everywhere god is everywhere the angels


are not everywhere but he has assigned


them different stations different work


different portfolio different work to do


amen Amen. Amen.


So they can deliver the decree of God.


They can also explain divine activities.


They can execute divine judgment


as well also.


All right. So we said u I was going to


tell you five things on how to engage


how you can be wise and strong with the


power of God in the light of all the


things that we have said so far. Number


one we said was faith will help us to be


strong with the power of God. Can you


remember that faith will help us to be


strong with the power of God


faith will help us to be strong with the


power of God. Faith will help us to be


strong with the power of God. And we


said that there are the tensile nature


of faith itself teaches us that I have a


lot of road because faith is action. I


can be weak in faith. I can I can have


little faith. Don't say no that's old


that's before Jesus died. Oh don't be


learning in an awkward manner. No, you


can be little in faith. You can be weak


in faith. Not that the faith of God has


any problem. is your exercise of faith


because faith more is the exercise.


There is still little faith post


resurrection. There's still weak in


faith post resurrection of Jesus.


If your faith, if your strength fail in


day of adversity, it was weak. That's


why you must be conscious.


The evil day will come for everybody.


It's not a matter of if it will come,


it's when it will come because it always


comes. But you must be strong in the


power of God. I'm strong in the power of


God. I'm strong in the power of God. I'm


strong in the power of God. I'm strong


in the power of God. And I'm ready. I'm


ready. Be strong. Strong in faith. Faith


is action. Look at that. Little faith,


weak faith, great faith. Even that


saponician woman three times, three


things happen. If it happens to many


persons today, they will not have any


faith. Jesus


was silent. Three things Jesus did to


that woman. Number one was silence. I've


showed you, we taught a series last uh


is it early this year or last year?


dogged in faith last year. Okay. Um


three things. Silence, rejection. Jesus


was silent. The later they say this


woman is following us today. The way the


woman came, he rejected her. In fact, he


told her I'm not anointed for you. Say


I'm called but to the lordship sheep of


the house of Israel. I'm not anointed


for you. The man of God that want to


heal you say I'm not anointed for you.


Ah the woman did not see go. Then he


said you are a dog. Ah ah ah a a a


insult from silence rejection when God


is silent. You see that you should


continue in faith.


No that I thought that also when we go


silent my show that you believe because


there are many things that always say


why did God not do that and God is


saying papa when you go wise this is a


release of power use the power you have


why do you cry onto me you Moses divide


the Red Sea. Oh my lord God, I cry unto


my God.


We make everything look like God is in


charge of everything that is happening


in the activities. No man, God


created the heavens and the earth. The


heavens is the Lord. The earth is the


Lord. True. However, Psalm 115 told us


the earth he has given to the sons of


men. Man has a lot of role he plays in


activities of things that happens on the


earth.


There are some things you say Mark 11:23


you shall say to the mountain or say to


God shall say to the mountain be thou


removed be that Christ to the sea and do


not doubt in your heart. Three times he


mentioned the word say as papay counted


for us


do not shall say to the mountain be thou


removed that and do not doubt in your


heart but believe that the things which


you see so what am I believing I'm


believing God will do it. Who send you


that one? Why are you believing God will


do it? Are you not a Christian? You


already should believe God will do it.


Is that you can't even believe your


prayer? You can't even believe what you


said. And many times when we get to that


point where we now believe what we are


saying, you will sit in your action.


Everything about you will change. It


will now be ah enough is enough. No,


this is you will go no further than now


you in faith. All those time you were a


joker, you were playing. Is that point


that because faith is action. Yes sir.


where you tell yourself no this must be


not being emotional I feel I trust God I


know what my Jesus can never serious


the blind man came to meet Jesus Jesus


asking what do you want me to do for you


can't Jesus see that he's blind


many believers are too weak and beggy


blind oh three times in the go people


met Jesus with obvious condition that I


can see as what should I do for you will


Talk you will say it


what God want me to I have are you 12


are you five you're getting old be


matured act responsibly which is what


and people are in the grave


me


have faith


In the words of the visionary, everyone


must climb Mount Pisgar and see the


promised land for themsel.


Be a coward.


My pastor, my pastor, have faith. Have


faith. Have faith. Have faith for


yourself. Have faith. Have faith.


Everybody must climb and see the


promised land. Oh,


don't enter. Have faith. Have faith.


Have faith.


Have faith.


Have faith in God. Have faith in God.


Who against who believed


he staggered not. So I don't know why


there's obstacle. Are you a baby? Grow


up. Obstacle. There will surely be


obstacles. Who against hope? Believe in


hope.


We are too used to the way of of of


failures. Even the natural are people


without God not to be hardworking, not


to go again. Christians give up too


easily and they they they think is God


is your fault. You are showing that you


have no substance, no word inside of


you, nothing inside of you. Empty


rise up in faith. This thing will work


or it will work.


Be docked in faith. That's how we engage


the power. Being wise and strong with


his power. I'm strong in his power when


I'm in faith. I'm strong in his power


when I'm in faith. I believe God


[Applause]


because I trusted.


David said, "I would have fainted unless


I had believed to see the goodness of


God in the land of the living.


I would have fainted unless I had


believed." That's why I don't faint.


Many years ago when this psalm became


clear to me I say I will never faint


again. It's four years now. There's


nothing I put my hand into that does not


work. It's either it work or it work. I


will not faint. I will not ah never


never never will I give up. Never will I


say it will not work.


One one month before we moved into this


place was looking like we're not going


to move. All of you were just following


say pastor just show us the place


God not shame you.


We moved in. I know when people don't


have faith. You can unbelief can be


touched.


It's not to be saying nice word. It's


not saying nice nice words that show


people have faith. John said to that


woman and the husband when he came to


pray for the woman as he entered the man


said I know I'm healed. I know I'm


healed. He said to the husband, why did


you not call me? She's still lying down.


She has not gotten up. Say your wife has


language does not have faith. That's


what many people have. My enemy is sick.


My friend, stop acting stupid. How can


you in your faith conversion you are


your enemy? My enemy is sick. Oh, my


enemy is You think that that's faith?


That's not faith. That's not faith.


My enemy.


We don't. Faith does not deny the fact.


Faith denies the whole the faith deny.


What faith is denying is not I don't


have headache. I have headache but it


cannot stop me from doing what I'm


doing. So I will remove this headache.


Faith does not deny the fact but it


denies his hold over me.


So faith is not telling lies. Faith is


saying the truth that if in spite and


despite of this situation look at what


God's word said and that's what I


believe. I believe God. I believe God. I


believe


said there shall be a performance of


those things that were spoken unto her.


I believe I believe. Hey,


see that Mary and Elizabeth said there


shall be a performance that were spoken


unto her. I believe for with God all


things are possible. Then in Mark say to


him that believeth. Two times you say


all things are possible with God and


with the man that has faith. Then you


say you don't want to have faith. I have


faith sir. I have faith. I have faith. I


have faith. I believe God. For with God


all things are possible. For with God


all things are For with God all things


are possible. For with God all things


are possible. For with God all things


are possible. I believe God. I believe


God. That man that leaned on the kingst


even if God were able to open the


windows of heaven this thing will not


happen. Elisha said you will see it but


you not eat it. Oh me. I believe God. I


believe God that God is able to open a


way. You will not see wind. You will not


see rain but the valleys shall be filled


with water. I believe God


you can take anything from me but don't


take my faith. Oh then that's why Satan


come for your faith because that has


great recompense of reward. If he remove


your faith you are finished. The trying


of your faith now only your faith it and


the after. It's only your faith is after


to get you to talk and say I'm finished.


I'm done. No, we don't talk like that


here.


It works or it works.


Heads or tail, we win.


Anyone I win.


And nothing terrified of the adversary.


Oh, nothing dies in my hands.


Oh, I have a commandment to increase. I


keep going up.


And the man was great and became


exceedingly great.


[Applause]


And I was great. And I became


exceedingly great.


I believe it. I believe it


forever. Oh Lord, your word is settled.


I have faith in the word of God.


When Jesus told Peter, "Come," Peter


walked on that word. Come. Faith is


solid enough for me to walk on. I


believe God. I believe God. I believe


God. I believe God.


I believe God. The angel shut the mouth


of of Zachariah because the man has


obviously been the reason why they have


not had a child since talking and


finally the child has come say you'll be


dumb. You will not be able to talk until


you be mute before you go use your mouth


spread this miracle. There are many


believers that have used their mouth to


spread their miracle and their


breakthrough. Are you sure God is really


doing something in my life? Aha.


Because they think everything is about


God, not knowing that some things are


about the resistance of human will. Some


things are about powers. Everything for


you is just God, God, God, God, God,


God. Is God your boss? Is God the


governor? Is God the president?


Everything God, God, God, God, God.


Learn the place of the release of power.


It's not everything God, God, God, God.


Speak to things. That's why you stay


longer because if it was all about God,


I would not need to I would not need to


pray long. 5 seconds is enough. If it


was in God's God is disposed to doing me


well.


I I showed you that text. He say write


this man childless. That's why we speak


Monday. Yeah. The word of the Lord I


prosper this day.


Are you here?


must learn how to say that. Monday, hear


the word of the Lord. I prosper.


Tuesday, hear the word of the Lord. I


prosper.


Wednesday, hear the word of the Lord. I


prosper.


Thursday, hear the word of the Lord, I


prosper. Friday, hear the word of the


Lord. I do well.


Saturday, the word of the Lord, I make


increase.


Sunday the word of the Lord I abound


keep saying good speak to the days


I say I have cried to God speak to the


days now learn how to speak to things


he stretched his hand to take figs but


he said it was not the time of he said


no might of you I can't stretch out my


hand and things don't come


no


[Applause]


He was teaching that's the same place he


taught us faith


think I'm a coward. No,


let us go up at once. They has bread for


us.


You will say it.


There's no situation I don't come out


from.


You will make bold to tell people say


you don't know me. This always work for


me.


Many years ago I was with a team of


persons. The project we're working on


was uh 1.9 billion. I was in that team


and they were saying I was in the team


of the project. We're working on a 1.9


billion contract and I don't mention


these things and of course my I have a


slot in that profit that will come out


from it. And they were saying are you


sure this will work? I said I said the


fact that I'm in this team it will work.


I don't join myself to what does not


work. Oh


I had to tell them I'm a man of God. Oh


no no I cannot join myself.


I have wasted night. I was sleep awake


walk. No no no no no I don't no


must learn. I told them I said the fact


that I'm here


this thing will work for the angel of


the Lord whose I am appeared to me and


said no life shall be lost. Look at how


Paul is speaking. The fact that I'm here


God has given me the lives of everybody


in this ship. You say it


cuz you have faith.


Has there been any you have followed me


today I not walk? I I'm not sure I don't


know if it will not work in your hand


but if it's in my hand and you not join


with me it must work


never I will guarantee that of faith can


move mountains


I believe it I believe it


speak to the ordinances speak to


everything say teach us witchcraft don't


be stupid not be speaking to So Jesus


spoke to the wind. Yes. Peace be still.


This storm over this house, it is over


for you.


I will not wake up every day in anger


quarreling with my wife and my husband,


my children. You will you will rebuke


the cloud.


Thou defiling clouds, you will go no


further.


You will see something you will charge


up.


No say he went to where the child was


and started rebuking all those things


that was going on the child's body that


he thought it was God. One by one they


all began to die off the body of the


child.


I believe God.


You can't take away my faith. I believe


God. I believe God. I believe God. I


believe God. What I want you to become


is is is


ferocious with your faith. Targeted in


your faith.


Trouble not the master. The the the


child is there. Say no.


The child is not dead.


Fear not.


Fear not.


Fear not. Go and prosper.


Who is telling you it will not work? It


will work. Oh, we have put power on it.


In the name of Jesus, it works.


In the name of Jesus, it works.


[Applause]


Do well,


make progress.


[Applause]


There's a project I'm working on. The


money is not complete. I already told


pastor, go and clear it.


When did we use money to start project?


When we use money to start something,


why in the way the Lord led me?


I cannot stretch my hand out and it


comes back empty. Hey,


[Applause]


he reprove kings for their sake.


A


faithless people,


stiff neck generation,


I am sustained this whole week


all the days of the week. I'm sustained.


[Applause]


Bring those seven persons without shout.


The power is coming on them. You are


sustainable.


[Applause]


[Music]


You are sustained.


Bring the seven of them for me.


Hallelujah. I've come with a tongue of


command. That's faith. You will say it.


Things are working. Oh, things are


working. Oh, you have put power on it.


Things are working. Oh, things are


working. Oh, the name of Jesus. Prosper.


Do well.


Yes,


I have the supernatural advantage.


I have it. I have it.


Bring the last person.


Yeah.


Welcome.


[Applause]


Oh, glory.


Yeah. God has blessed you.


It prospers


for where the tree fall there shall lie.


Oh, it will remain there.


So shall it be. The word that goeth


forth out of my mouth shall not return


back void.


[Applause]


The


the margin says in that for with God all


things are possible. says no freshly


spoken word of God is without power


freshly spoken word.


[Applause]


Oh glory I believe God.


I believe God. I believe God. None shall


cast a young


bishop shouted you are not pregnant now


with blood end of my food


that faith


let that baby turn you say it


you say it


speak in faith and power


and my wife who have never had the fear


of miscarriage once


I see I empathize sympathize. We don't


but we don't talk like that here


say what is the fear fear you took in go


and give birth that's all one is I wish


I wish the baby I know I've never put my


head once to feel heartbeat


die if you get mind


nothing dies in my hand


[Applause]


The second wave in prayer we will


wrestle. I've wrestled. The Lord say


I've given you his life now.


He will carry all


see


you will wrestle.


Ah


you will wrestle.


Another way we engage forces we talked


about it was prayer.


Sit down. Sit down. Sit down. Believe


them. Let God be true with them. When it


is in prayer,


it's in prayer. Oh,


the place of prayer.


The place of prayer.


Hallelujah.


The place of prayer and fellowship.


Look at this.


Oh, this one just entered my spirit. How


did I not read this Ezra then? Kai Kai.


Thank you, Lord, for remembrance.


Hey,


Ezra chapter 8:22. Put it, put it, put


it, put it, put it, put it.


Woo.


I will use


for I was ashamed to require of the


kings a band of soldier and horsemen to


help us against the enemy in the way


because we have spoken unto the king


saying the hand of our God is upon all


of them for good


but is


I would have asked the king but I've


already told the king that God was


enough for me. He say, "So now I'm


ashamed. How do I go and tell the king


God could not do it?


I've already said it work. It go work.


It go work. I cannot


follow.


I cannot now go back and say, "Hey, hey,


we are finished." Ah, no. No sir, sir. I


know I told you I trust in God not in


chariot, but give me your chariot. No,


never.


Glory.


God is sufficient.


The next verse. So we fasted and


besought our God for this and he was


entreated for us. Not know because now


that we are having multitude of thoughts


it go work. Hey should we go back and go


and beg. Hey could I go and tell the


king now your hand if you not help us.


So say so we intreated God.


We besought him and he was in treated


for us. The same thing he say and Isaac


inreated the Lord for his wife Rebecca


and the Lord was entreated and she


conceived.


It not go walk not go


[Applause]


[Music]


[Applause]


when I get to pray.


Call unto me and I will answer thee and


I will show thee great and mighty things


which thou knowest not of.


Yeah, that's the power of God.


The time is faster from the other side.


[Applause]


The sound of joy


because you prayed.


[Applause]


Because you prayed.


See the Lord was intreated. Ha.


The Lord was intreated.


The Lord was intreated.


Who is telling you it will not work?


God releas


mountains.


Men who prayed ah


that's how Jacob became Israel.


Say shall a nation be born


as soon as Zion tra she brought forth


you will pray the answer into your lap


telling you prayer does not work because


you don't like to spend time I just do 5


minutes no many times prayer is about


the release of power


it's not about I receive it's I release


power for that thing because it's not


always God's hand that is not making me


receive it. So I need to release power.


What did God say? said the wedding held


and this was what was


praying.


So I fasted and besought the lot.


How can we go back and tell the king?


We asked for soldiers. We would have


asked you for soldiers. So hey, he says,


"No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,


no, no, no. I man up."


So we besought God.


Because we had we had already spoken to


the king in faith. We said God is


enough.


[Applause]


[Music]


[Applause]


Sufficient it is God for him.


He said the psalist say blessed is the


man that has God as a refuge. You all


know better. I say you get God.


The God of Jesu that rise on the skies


to your help.


Hey


is in the place of prayer.


The Lord of hosts,


the King of glory,


[Applause]


you see in prayer


and I cried unto the Lord of hosts and


he heard me.


He say my enemy prevented me because he


was too strong for me. So God delivered


me.


It don't matter how the enemy strong,


God delivered me. Say they prevented me


the way but God but God. But God but


God. That's Psalm 18. He say so I beat


the enemy like the dust of the air. I


finish I scatter his bones everywhere.


Hey,


prayer.


Thank God for the gift of prayer. It's a


gift.


[Applause]


I cannot end like this.


day go by


come true for me. Let the Lord of the


breaks arise


break forth upon us.


Aha


in prayer.


In prayer.


Who is telling you is not by prayer?


Baba. It's by prayer. Oh,


it's by prayer.


is by prayer.


Is by prayer.


Is by prayer.


Is by prayer.


Is by prayer.


[Applause]


Do you think this rain did not want to


fall?


[Applause]


As the weather I said Lord I gave


commandment to rain not to be falling on


Wednesdays and Sunday service. So he


said I I have heard you forget it. It


will just make the weather cool.


So I he was intreated


for me.


God they hear me.


Oh God that answered prayer.


Unto him shall all flesh come.


I've come.


I've come. I've come.


Can I just get 5 minutes with you, sir?


Now I have all time with King of Kings.


Look at how people lobby to get 10


minutes with influential people that can


turn things for them. No one more


influential than Yahweh


on your knees. You rule the world


[Applause]


on your knees.


[Applause]


How can we go back and tell them the God


that we trusted was not able to do it?


Say, "So I besought the Lord." How could


I tell them that God was not able to


give me a child? Oh, I had to resort to


No, no, no, no. How could I tell them?


that. No, no, no, no.


So I besought the Lord and he was in


treated


for us.


[Applause]


Come on, lift your hands and pray in the


Holy Ghost. Come sing that song. The


Lord of hosts. Pray, pray, pray.


We'll continue from here on Wednesday.


Heat. Heat.


Yeah.


Heat.


Heat.


Heat.


King of glory


[Music]


glory.


Yahe


all the Lord


the king of glory


the Lord the Lord


the Lord


Heat. Heat.


Heat.


Heat.


power.


Hey, he's the Lord of heaven.


The Lord of Angels.


Heat.


Heat.


The light


of


I want your glory.


Y


the king of glory.


The Lord, the Lord, the Lord


is the Lord of heaven. Salvation,


the King of glory.


The King of glory.


[Music]


You see the way you are feeling.


That's it.


be ashamed to go back and ask people


when you told them the hand of God was


shame.


[Music]


So we besought the Lord


and you treated us.


Heat. Heat.


[Music]


Heat.


Heat.


The king of glory


always


the Lord of


the Lord of