Father, in the name of Jesus, Lord, we


thank you spirit again. And we trust


that revelation knowledge will flood our


hearts this evening. We declare that the


things that ought to be said will be


said. The things that ought to be done


will be done to the praise and glory of


your name. We declare that we shall be


built up, transformed by the power of


your word. Amen. God bless you. Have


your seats. And um


Genesis chapter 1 and verse one.


Genesis chapter 1 and verse one. It


says, "In the beginning, God created the


heaven and the earth." In the beginning,


God created the heaven and the earth. In


the beginning, God created the heaven


and the earth. Now, we said the heaven


and the earth, it seems as if they are


poles apart,


needing to be separated, but they were


not made to be separated from each


other. They were actually made for each


other. Just like the husband and the


wife, the male and the female were made


for each other. Amen.


Hallelujah.


And we must see the place of the natural


and the supernatural working together


because in the glorified Eden in uh the


kingdom of God when all the earth is


Zion, we will observe or notice that


it is still the same thing. the heaven


and the earth together in union with


each other. Hebrews chapter 11 and um


Hebrews chapter 11 and verse three it


says through faith we understand that


the worlds were framed the periods of


time were framed by the word of God so


that so that so that the things which


are seen were not made of the things


which do appear. So the seen so that the


things which are seen were not made of


the things which do appear. The things


that are seen were not made of the


things which are seen. So the seen and


the unseen and we said that the faith of


God in the scriptures that the biblical


writers wrote about they wrote about it


using the seen word to explain the


unseen word. Hallelujah. And in our


lives we must have such understanding


that the seen and the unseen were made


for each other. They are not competing.


They are not conflicting. They are not


fighting. And so when there is an


emphasis on the supernatural, it should


never be a deemphasis on the natural.


And when there is an emphasis on the


natural, it should never be a deemphasis


on the supernatural.


You are not normal when there is any of


such deemphasis in your life. You are


not normal. And um


people have grown up over the years


getting used to blaming people for


different issues, reasons in their life.


Oh, it's my auntie's fault. Oh, it's my


uncle's fault. Oh, it's my mom. Oh, it's


my dad. Oh, is this person or is that


person? But you an adult, you must take


responsibility for your actions. Amen.


must take responsibility for your own


actions. Oh, I am not achieving this


because of me, not because of somebody


else. I'm not uh


because there are you can't be uh above


the teenage age and you're looking for


people to blame for why you could not do


what you did or why you did what you


did. You can't be looking for who to


blame.


must take responsibility for your


living. Hallelujah.


So we said the seen and the unseen were


made for each other. The sin and the


unseen were made for each other. And


when we say unseen forces, we're dealing


with unseen influences and power. And


that unseen influences and power may


come from God himself or from


supernatural beings that he made. Now we


have the good and the bad of such.


Then can come from man good or evil man


walking


with power. And where we have witches,


wizards, sorcerers, magicians, people


who use power negatively. Amen. Then we


have Christians, believers who are


greater than all the magicians in the


world. If you were to pile all the


magicians in the world, what one


Christian just fresh from hell, just


newly got saved can do, all of them put


together cannot do. And once that


becomes the framework in your mind, it


helps you. It helps you in how you live.


And our emphasis, we said we should be


wise and strong with the power of God.


In Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 10, it


says, "Finally, my brethren, be strong


in the Lord and in the power of his


might. Be strong in the Lord and in the


power of his might." be strong in the


Lord and in the power of his might. And


we said, "It is possible to not be


strong in the Lord." Amen. It's possible


to be weak in the Lord. It's possible to


be weak in the power of God.


It's possible to be weak in the power of


God. And we must ensure that that's not


our example. That's not our example.


That's not our example. In Proverbs 24


and verse 10, it says, "If thou faint in


the day of adversity, thy strength is


small." Not your father, not your


mother, not your uncle, not your auntie,


not your sister, not your husband, not


your wife, not your children. Stop


looking for who to blame for your life.


Take responsibility for your life and


for your living. There are many


irresponsible persons in the world


today. And sadly, there are many that


are Christians that are highly


responsible and they cover it up with


Jesus. Being born again is not the great


cover up. Neither is it the great excuse


that you have to be a failure, that you


have to be sick, that you have to be


poor, that you have to be broke, that


you have to not be intelligent. Being


born again is not an excuse


to not be what every normal human being


seeks to be. Amen. So when you want to


hold on to Jesus as your excuse, you are


in religion. You are in something else


different from what the Bible teaches


about the Christian faith. Hallelujah.


We cannot innovate about the practice of


the Christian faith. Paul writing to


Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 3 told him


from a child you have known the holy


scripture which is able to make you wise


unto salvation through faith which is in


Christ Jesus. The scripture shows us how


to live how to conduct oursel. The


scripture makes us wise unto salvation.


Amen.


Hallelujah.


And so we said there are four things we


need to take note. Uh I said I was going


to teach you five things to take note of


in being wise and strong with his power.


Number one, we said faith will help you


to be strong with the power of God. And


you can also by faith believe that I


have the wisdom of God. The wisdom of


God is at work in me. I always believe


that the wisdom of God is there to take.


Why? Because God's word tells us Christ


has been made unto us wisdom from God.


So I will never have a wisdom problem in


my life because Christ has been made


wisdom unto me and Christ is in me. I


have all the treasure of wisdom and


understanding. So if I have Jesus I have


wisdom and understanding. I have the


mind of Christ even in the scriptures.


So by faith I believe that I always have


wisdom. By faith I believe. However that


faith is more in the area of being


strong in the power of God. Then we said


the second thing and in that faith we


talked about the tensile nature of faith


that your faith can be little, faith can


be weak, faith can be great and is all


up to you.


It's all up to you. It's all up to you


because it's what you do with the power


of God. It's what you do with the word


of God that makes you weak in faith,


little faith, strong in faith, no faith


at all. And many Christians have no


faith at all in their living. It's just


anything the doctor says, anything life


throws at me, it's okay. Anything I see,


it's okay. And that's many Christians


life is just, oh, I am born again. I


have a father, I have an heavenly


father. Amen. Hallelujah. Glory to God.


And that's it. What a pathetic existence


for such people. And that's what they


call their Christian life. No life of


faith, no victory. Satan already has has


already won in those individuals life.


In fact, they even belong to Satan. We


can boldly say that because they are of


no threat, no relevance anymore to


Satan's kingdom. So they have been


recruited for Satan already because they


have no faith because what Satan is


after in people is their faith. So this


one has no faith. This one is a is a


zero, a minus. When Satan sees who has


authority over him and regards him as a


minor, that's a pathetic state for


existence. And many believers find


themselves there. Is it is not my fault


to is what I woke up to see. Is not my


fault to is what I woke up to see. It's


what


life did to me. So I saw this doctor's


report. Amen. So I saw this uh


no favor in my life. Amen. Everything


that they see that is negative, they say


amen to it because they never ever want


to stand and see what does God's word


say. There are so many scriptures in the


word of God. So many stories in the word


of God. If this thing is true, it ought


to be true in my life. And I cannot even


say if this is true because that again


would be another level of insanity. It


is true because I am saved. If not, I


would not have gotten born again or be


filled with the spirit. Now, since this


is true, I ought to live by it. I ought


to want to see the result of it in my


everyday life. Amen.


So, we talked about faith will help us


to be strong with the power of God.


Then, we talked about the place of


prayer and fellowship. The place of


prayer and fellowship. Even notice the


way Jesus said, "I'll pray the father


and he will send 12 legions." Prayer


activates the ministry of angels. And we


looked at Peter in prison in Acts


chapter 12. As he as they were praying


for him, an angel was released. The same


thing in Luke 22 when Jesus prayed, the


angels came to strengthen him. We said


prayer activates the ministry of angels.


Why? Because in prayer, we become more


discerning. And we said we can discern


three things. Times, we can discern men.


We can discern events. In prayer, we put


on strength. In prayer, you put on


wisdom as well. James says, "If anyone


lack wisdom, let him ask God." So, I can


put wisdom within the confines of my


prayer life. If I lack wisdom concerning


anything, Lord, since I have access to


all the wisdom of God, then I can ask


God for all wisdom concerning this


matter. for the wisdom concerning this


matter and that is being responsible


for my Christian living. Amen. The same


James saying knowing that the trying of


your faith


trying of your faith our faith is being


tried and Satan tries our faith comes


for our faith. Peter says that the trial


of your faith be more precious than of


gold. 1 Peter 1:7 that perisheth though


it be tried with fire might be found


unto praise and honor and glory at the


appearing of Jesus Christ. The trial of


your faith. Our faith is the very


important part of our life and prayer is


also one of the places we also use faith


because there's the prayer of faith.


Mark 11:23. So having said you speak,


you will speak, you will speak three


times in verse 24. So whatever thing you


desire when you pray, believe that you


receive it. So I can desire in the place


of prayer, but I'm to believe I receive


it. Then he says, then I shall have it.


So I believe I receive, then I have. So


if I want to have, I believe, I receive.


Notice again how he doesn't say God I


believe God is going to do it. I believe


an emphasis in the Christian life is the


an emphasis of responsibility. Mark


11:23 I shall say say and say I shall


not doubt in my heart but believe what I


say not again believe what God is going


to do because God is the constant king.


Nothing wrong with what God does.


Nothing wrong with God committing


himself to help us but it's up to me.


Hallelujah.


It's up to me. So in prayer we say we


put on strength. In prayer you put on


wisdom. In prayer you command power.


James chapter 5 and verse 16. We saw


that as well. We pray the fual prayer of


a righteous man availth much. And we


said we never get to finish praying 5:17


because we are to pray without ceasing.


And I read a text on Sunday uh for you


uh Ezra chapter 8 and verse 22. Ezra


chapter 8 and verse 22. And it says,


"For I was ashamed to require of the


king a band of soldier and horsemen to


help us against the enemy in the way.


Because we have spoken unto the king,


saying, the hand of our God is upon all


them for good that seek him, but his


power and his w is against all them that


forsake him." So we fasted and besought


our God for this and he was intreated of


us. That should be the believer's


pattern for living. There is nothing we


shouldn't intreat God about. If it's


going to give you sleepless nights, it's


going to make you worried. It's going to


get you anxious. It's going to get you


in any state different from the


Christian life, we should pray about it.


Hallelujah. The place of prayer very


important. And thirdly, we said the


place of meditation and internalizing


God's word. Joshua chapter 1 and verse


8. Joshua chapter 1 and verse 8. It


says, "This book of the law shall not


depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt


meditate therein day and night, that


thou mayest observe to do according to


all that is written therein. For then


thou shalt make thy way prosperous." So


I make my way prosperous. So if I'm not


advancing, it's up to me. You shall make


your way prosperous. I shall make my way


prosperous. Thou shall make thy way


prosperous. Thou shall make thy way. So


I have a role to play in my progress. In


my advancement. The word prosperous


there is the Hebrew word salak. T S T S


A L A C H used for progress. To advance.


Then thou shalt have good success and


thou shalt have good success. And the


word to have good success I've told you


is the word to deal wisely in the


affairs of life because one of the core


recipient for success for productivity


for doing well is wisdom. You cannot


remove wisdom in doing well. Anyone who


is not wise will be a failure or will


keep failing. Wisdom and success and


progress are synonymous. Failure and


foolishness are twin.


So Joshua 1 vers8, this book of the law


shall not depart out of thy mouth, but


thou shall me during day and night. So I


feed myself with God's word. Now this


book of the law here was not 612 or 13


laws. No, but what Moses wrote, the


Torah. And that in that timeline was the


word of God that they have. Now we have


a complete cannon of scripture. We are


to meditate on it. We are to meditate on


it. We are to meditate on the word of


God. And meditating on the word of God


is the game changer. Hallelujah.


1 Timothy chapter 4, Paul writing, he


says verse 13, "Till I come, give


attendance to reading, to exaltation, to


doctrine." Then in verse 14, he says,


"Neglect not the gift that is in thee,


which was given thee by prophecy with


the laying on of the hands of the


presby." Verse 15, it says, "Meditate


upon these things. Give thyself wy to


them, that thy profiting may appear to


all. Meditate upon these things." So


there's what to meditate on. I made it


on what I gave attendance to redeem. I


also made it on the things of the spirit


that have happened to me, hands that


have been laid, prophecy that I have


received, the gifts that I have. So I


made it on the things that I have


spiritual. I also made it on God's word


and say so shall thy profiting appear to


all which is the word progress. Your


progress will appear to all.


Take heed onto thyself and unto the


doctrine continuing them. For in doing


this, thou shalt both save thyself and


them that hear thee. So there's a lot we


should do with God's word. And one of


such things we should do with God's word


is meditate on it. So we said the place


of meditating and internalizing God's


word. In fact, this is one of the


greatest places to get wisdom. If I want


to be wise in the power of God, I can't


find any place that has 100 over 100


results all other than staying in God's


word. Now prayer can help us because in


prayer we get wisdom. In prayer because


wisdom comes from the mouth of God. The


Sammy said so when I pray I can get


wisdom from the Lord. When I pray, I can


command power because prayer makes


tremendous power available. And I said


to you that prayer is not just about


what I receive because that's where lazy


people stay. And as you grow in your


Christian experience, you will notice


that life will not always answer to you


like that. Oh, I prayed. Then you say, I


did not receive my answer because you're


a weakling, because you choose to be a


coward. No. Make power available and


blast situation because not everything


is about God. Because as you become


noticed, say, "Oh, I don't want to be


noticed." Then you just play into the


hand of the devil and it keeps messing


you up. But if you're going to be, if


you are going to grow spiritually, you


must get to that place where is not just


I receive to now I release power for


this thing to work. Because that lazy


form of expression where oh I depend on


God, I depend on God. Of course, prayer


is dependence on God. I still depend on


God. We must always depend on God. But


in that dependence does not remove the


place of you showing that you have


grown. You can take action for some


things on your own. And God expects you


to take action on some things. So we


talked about there is the receiving


prayer and the releasing prayer. And


I've told you before many times in life


prayer is more of a release of power


than a receive of answer.


Prayer is more of a release of power


than I just pray amen, hallelujah,


glory. No, I spend time because this is


what I want to see. And that's where


fasting comes into prayer where you tell


yourself, no, no, no. I'm going to


deprive myself of food for this time


because and not because food is the


emphasis because I want to spend longer


time. I can't spend longer time and I'm


eating. I want to spend longer time with


the Lord on this matter. That's really


what prayer is. Fasting I meant to say


is more about spending time with God


than spending time away from food or any


of those other pleasure. It's more of


the time with than the time away.


Because many person stay without food is


just hunger strike or they are doing


intermittent fasting for their health.


But fasting is actually spending time


with God. And that is very important


because that time I'm spending I'm


saying this thing must change or it must


change. And that is the release of


power. So I can make power available. In


prayer I command the power of God. I


release the power of God. In prayer I


also receive answer. I release the power


of God. In prayer wisdom also is mine.


But one of the loudest places that we


would have the wisdom of God is how much


we have soaked our mind into God's word.


Proverbs 4:23 it says, "Guard your heart


with all diligence for out of it are the


issues of life." Amen. Guard your heart


with all diligence. Guard your heart


with all diligence. When you see people


who are reckless with their heart, with


your mind that they can think anything,


you've seen people who do not want to


live long. You've seen people who are


obviously worshippers of Satan because


Satan is going to mess them up. Once you


mess up your mind, your that mind will


be more of the of of what serves the


devil's devices. What they say than idol


minds, the devil's workshop. A mind not


guarded belong to Satan. There's no in


between. Sometimes we like the in


between. Say no, it's possible that it's


not really. It's just in between. There


are no inbetweens. There are no


inbetweens. There are no inbetweens in


life. There are no inbetweens. There are


no inbetweens. It's either you are this


or you are this.


Because that idea of oh I can choose to


think anyhow my life and it will not


affect me. Are you two years? You're not


two. You are not three. You're not four.


How can you think you can think anyhow


it won't affect your life? That is gross


irresponsibility.


Gross irresponsibility.


As a man thinkketh in his heart so is


he. The your life proceeds from your


thoughts. Your life proceeds from your


thoughts. You guard your heart. Your


life proceeds from your thoughts. You


cannot joke with how you think. You


cannot joke with your mind. I I will I


can feed my mind on anything that I


like. Then you can as well just say you


want to destroy yourself. You cannot


feed your mind on anything that you


like. My mind should be filled with


God's word. Then I I direct my thought.


The Bible is so specific about how we


are to think. He didn't leave it to


chance. Philippians chapter 4, he says


um verse 7, still in the place of


prayer. Let's start from verse six. Be


careful for nothing but in everything by


prayer and supplication make your


request known unto God. There says and


the peace of God. So many times the


reason why you have lost your peace is


because you have not prayed. So no peace


in your heart. And the peace of God


which passes all understanding shall


keep your heart. Underline that word


keep. That word keep there is the word


God. The peace of God will be the umpire


will garrison your heart will keep your


heart and minds through Jesus Christ.


Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are


true, that's what you think about.


Whatever things are true, whatever


things are honest, whatever things are


just, can your mind wander into other


things? Yes, but you bring it back. Your


predominant thinking should never go to


darkness. Your predominant thinking must


go to the light. Must go to the


direction of God's word. Amen. If not,


you will see it in your advancement, in


your progress, in your profits. Finally,


bedroom, whatever things are true,


whatever things are honest, whatever


things are honest, whatever things are


honest,


Whatsoever things are honest, noble,


whatsoever things are just, whatever


things are pure, whatever things are


lovely, whatever things are of good


report. If there be any virtue and if


there be any


praise, anything praiseworthy, think on


these things. This is praiseworthy to


think on these things. To think on these


things. So there's what I think on.


There's what I think on. There's what I


think on. Most people only know about


the speaking part that activate the


ministry of angels. What about the


thinking part? Many times I always tell


people to to bring it from the negative.


Look at how you think and how much Satan


is involved. How come you think


supernatural beings are not involved


with thoughts too? You think it doesn't


really matter how I'm thinking. Is Satan


not an angel again or you are forgotten?


And see how much is involved with your


thought? Why don't you focus that energy


in thinking the right way and see


supernatural beings released for you and


see them walking with you based on how


you're thinking. Matthew chapter 1.


Matthew chapter 1. Matthew chapter 1.


You must learn to think on things with


God in your mind. You must learn to


think on things with God in your mind.


Verse 19. Then Joseph her husband being


a just man and not willing to make her a


public example was minded to put her


away privately. Verse 20. But while he


thought on these things, behold,


behold the angel of the Lord. While he


thought on these things, the angel,


while he thought on these things, the


angel, what he was thinking about is


what release the angel. Why? Because


your thinking is your action. You cannot


think and form your thoughts and you're


not going to act on it because those


thoughts are very important. Those


thoughts are very important. What I


think about is very important.


It says, "Behold, the angel of the Lord


appeared unto him in a dream, saying,


Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to


take unto thee." You know how he writes,


it makes it look like the man was


conscious while sleeping. No, he's


trying to tell you that the reason why


he had that dream was because of what he


was thinking about. So in response to


his thinking,


are you following? Very simplistic


reading in order for people not to hear


voices about what he's saying. While he


thought on these things, behold the


angel of the Lord appeared onto him in a


dream. You know, for you to be dreaming,


you have to be sleeping. But we said


while he thought on these things, so to


show you that that was the thought of


his heart that got him to sleep.


Hallelujah.


That was the thought on his heart. Look


at Genesis chapter 3. Look at the


conversation. Don't need to turn your


Bible there. I'm still in Matthew


chapter one. Observe that the serpent


and Eve


did God really say?


Then Paul wants to explain that


insatians 11:3. He say lest your mind


lest you be deceived. Just the same way


Satan begiled Eve in the mind from the


substitute begile. Ah mind ah


because the thinking is very very


important. I cannot think anyhow and


think my life will not go anyhow. Amen.


You reap the harvest of your thoughts.


you reap the harvest of your I've seen


people maybe because some people are not


trained in leadership so as leaders they


don't know how to interact with people


they they don't understand leadership so


they they they don't know how it is so


easy


to call out people when they are trying


to be stupid or lie or deny there is


nothing like you see


there are actions people have you can


already tell what they are thinking of


it's not a prayer point it's not


anything to be praying and say Lord


reveal to me. There's nothing is


revealing from the way you because you


will reap the harvest of your thoughts.


You cannot say we cannot see an we


cannot see the harvest of something and


we are telling you you were thinking on


this you say no I was not thinking on it


you may be talking to children but if


it's me you were talking to I obviously


call you out on that thing it's so


simple to see you can't be thinking


because once you have this harvest you


have this thought you havevested your


thoughts you can't say no no


can you pretend to life


wisdom is justified of our children we


can see the fruit. We will always see


the fruit of your actions. You can't say


uh


we will always see the fruit of your


actions. We will always see the fruit of


your actions. Amen.


say, "While he taught on these things,


behold, the angel of the Lord appeared


unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph,


while he taught on these things."


Matthew chapter 6:16,


flesh and blood has not revealed this to


you, but my father. Flesh and blood has


not revealed this. So, there's flesh and


blood revelation, and there's revelation


that comes from the father. Verse 17,


blessed art thou, Simon, by Jonah, for


flesh and blood had not revealed it unto


thee, but my father which is in heaven.


So there is flesh and blood revelation


and there's revelation that comes from


God.


Then it talks about I'll give you the


keys of the kingdom of heaven. Verse 19,


and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth


shall be bound in heaven. Whatsoever


thou shalt lose on earth shall be loosed


in heaven. Then charge his disciples


that they should tell no man that he was


Jesus the Christ. From that time forth


began Jesus to show unto his disciples


how that he must go unto Jerusalem and


suffer many things of the elders and the


chief priests and the scribes and be


killed and be raised again the third


day. Verse 22. Then Peter took him and


began to rebuke him saying be it far


from thee, Lord. This shall not be unto


thee. Verse 23. But he turned and said


unto


get thee behind me, Satan, thou art an


offense unto me, for thou serverest,


that's the word, think again.


Where did Satan come into the


conversation? The thinking. Where did


angel come into the conversation? The


thinking. Now this is a negative angel,


a dark or fallen one. Amen.


However,


in Genesis


in the in Matthew chapter one, we see


the good angel. Amen.


Matthew 1:20, the angel that appeared to


Joseph. But yeah, notice how clear it


makes it. Thou had an offensive for thou


sest not the things that be of God, but


the things that be of men. So the what


was the thought running through Peter's


mind? No, you're not going to die. No,


you're not going to die. And that's why


he said what he said. So Jesus in his


explanation say get behind me Satan for


thou


sest not the things that be of God but


things that be of man sus there is the


word you exercise your mind the way man


does told you before Satan thinks like a


man that's the best he can lay hold of


because with man is creativity with man


is the highest expression of the image


of God amen he needs that he needs that


level of creativity. It needs that level


of result. So it will have to hold on to


man. It can't be using animals now. It


won't have any function such they don't


have the cranial capacity or the


glory and honor to be used to produce


the kind of result that he's looking


for. So he would rather walk through man


than walk through other living things.


Amen. Hallelujah.


Those


things in themselves are not evil but


people uh use them in an evil manner or


communicate evil onto them. Hallelujah.


And that's where we can sanctify a place


by our very presence.


So everywhere you go leave your blessing


there. Amen. 1 Corinthians chapter 12 it


says now concerning spiritual gifts


brethren I will not have you ignorant so


does God want us to be ignorant


concerning spirituals is our ignorant


concerning spiritual going to be costly


to us yeah there are many believers that


don't even know there anything as


healing nether walking a miracle all


they know is


uh


their pastors teach them like it's a


business seminar they do bad graft in


church. They talk to them about Ma


Mahatma Gandhi. They talk to them about


uh


they talk to them about


uh Aristo. They talk to them about uh


Socrates. They talk to them about Cero.


They talk to them about different Greek


communicators. And they tell them, "Oh,


this is it." Then they give them


examples that you see there is uh this


Indian guru. Now you keep and you are


wondering why people are following


Indian gurus from your church. You keep


referencing them that there's this


mantra that is in the Indian guru. Oh


why beautiful and that's what they know.


So you say things of the spirit gifts of


the spirit number one spirit husband.


That's what you get when you have such


backward teachers of God's word. Because


things of the spirit, the spirit of


entrepreneurship,


see it now, the spirit of productivity


and the spirit of excellence. We're


talking about things of the spirit. Can


see foolishness littered around the


whole answer.


Uh drama,


things of the spirit, drama.


Because you know when uh when we when we


dramatize these things life is given to


it.


Those are things of the spirit. So what


about things of the spirit like healing?


Say healing. We get doctors for that.


All right. So we don't have Hollywood


actors. We don't have actors for drama.


Must be joking. We say concerning


spirituals. I will not have you


ignorant. So we should not be ignorant.


And if we are not ignorant, what cures


ignorance? The study of God's word. So


if I give myself to God's word, I'll be


knowledgeable concerning spirituals. How


can we have a Christian? I don't know


how people use their life these days.


You have never listened to a complete


message of two hours. You watch movies


of TV hours and you say, I don't know


why my life is like this. You have


judged yourself and you are forever


judged. keeps answering and giving such


foolish verdict. I don't know why my


life is like I can tell you why your


life is like this. In the words of the


you are a failure. That's what you are.


Continue fooling yourself and thinking


it doesn't have result and you look for


for foolish leaders to lash on who don't


have answers for you. I mean not in this


ministry by the way because it takes a


foolish person not to know that it is


how you have been thinking.


That question we should ask you. What do


you read? Nothing. Do you read books?


No. Do you listen to message? No. You


say I listen to message. You are a liar


and the truth is not in you. Should be


able to say some things boldly.


Wisdom is always justified of our


children. You can't be saying I feed on


God's word. Then you do not know what to


say. Shut up. You're a liar.


We can see it.


Thy word have I hid in my heart.


It will produce an action.


Your words were found and I did eat


them. They were the joy and so something


happens when you are feeding on God's


word. You will have the proper actions.


If you don't have the action of God's


word, it's because you are not feeding


on God's word. You're feeling of anxiety


on some people know how to just sit down


and just be thinking, you be thinking,


just be thinking, just be thinking.


They won't think on God's word. They


will think on every other thing other


than God's word and wonder how their


mind is running a wire. Put your mind on


God's word.


Amen. Amen. Guard your heart with all


diligence for out of it are the issues


of life,


the proceeds of life. Your life goes in


direction of your thinking. So clear


say come and join me. say ah don't join


no he say eat and drink but his heart is


not with you know there are people and


we do that every day people do that


every day tell somebody come and join me


but he don't really want you to join


them so that will inter say because what


he saying not mean to say eat and drink


but his heart is not there so as a man


thinkketh in his heart so is he that's


the context as a man thinks in his heart


what is he thinking he doesn't really


want you to join him but he's just


saying for s so our words can betray our


thoughts we can be saying something that


we don't mean but it's really what we


mean that is in our heart and that's who


we are and that's how we live. Amen.


Life gives you what your mind is ready


for. Life gives you what your mind is


equipped for. Life gives you what your


mind is ready for. Amen.


If you don't have the mind for a


millionaire, you'll never see it. You


may have the stinginess, the greediness,


the selfishness of a millionaire, the


ideas you will have is to be a thief for


a millionaire. Life gives you what your


mind is ready for once you begin to


stretch the bandwidth of your mind. I've


seen people who want millions and they


have uh cobble intelligence. They have


cobble actions. Not even n actions.


Their actions are in cobble. They are


thinking is in cobble


or cob. put s


they have a cobbo thinking a cobble


brain and they want 10 million I've told


you before the natural and the


supernatural are not fighting


they say oh then he's not even doing


anything supernatural now if he was the


first thing God would tell him is to


rebuke him or to rebuke her and tell why


not go read this why not ask this person


why not and that is why I'm always make


bold to tell you that many persons are


not talking to God when they say but I


prayed it's not our God you are talking


to


so proverbs 4:23 makes it clear guard


your heart with all diligence for out of


it are the issues of life your life goes


in the direction of your thinking the


way you think is how you live you cannot


think failure and achieve success you


cannot think defeat and have victory.


You cannot think


productivity


and be having failure. No.


And I can now put my mind on God's word


and God's word is all the wisdom of God.


Hallelujah. Imagine I put my mind on the


mind of Christ. What kind of life I will


live. Imagine I put my mind there. I'm


always open to the wisdom of God. I put


my mind on the possibilities of God's


word. The psalmist will say meditate on


the he said he said I meditate on the


wondrous works.


Look at how many times meditate is in


the psalms.


Psalm 63 David said


from verse one. Oh God my godly will I


seek thee. My soul tested for thee. My


flesh longketh for thee in a dry


testament where there is no water to see


thy power. This is the longing of my


heart to see your power and your glory


as I've seen in the sanctuary.


Verse six, when I remember thee upon my


bed and meditate on thee in my night


watches.


So those different periods of the night


as I wake up to turn to do something, I


meditate on you. I meditate on you


in Psalm 77


verse 10. And I said, "This is my


infirmity, but I'll remember the years


of the right hand of the most high."


Verse 11, "I'll remember the works of


the Lord. Surely I will remember thy


wonders of old." I will remember. Is


that thinking? I will remember. That's


the word zakai in the Hebrew to call to


mind. I will call to mind. I will call


to mind thy wonders of old. I think on


miracles. I will meditate also of all


thy work and talk of thy doing. I will


meditate as the same word in Joshua 1


vers8 to to groan to to to mort to


imagine to m inside. You're pondering


you ruminate the thought again and again


the way the the go through in out in


before swallowing it. I ruminate it


again and again and again and again over


my mind. Before you know it enters my


mouth enters my mouth. Why? Because out


of the abundance of the heart the mouth


speaks. The same way people get anxious


and worried and they walking on the road


and for you know they are talking


because they are full of matter. They


are full of issue. They will talk.


I will meditate also. I will meditate


also of all thy work. I meditate on the


wonders of God. I meditate on the


wonders of God. I meditate on the


wonders of God. I meditate on the


wonders of God.


Hallelujah.


Psalm 143:5. I remember the days of old.


I meditate on all thy work. I muse


another word for meditate seak.


This is the form of meditation that


leads to music. I meditate on the work


of thy hand. I muse about it is ish


God is good. Oh yeah. Glory.


So that's how he does his things. So


I I am muse. It's it's it's it's it's


the face that leads to speaking after


thinking deeply. That phase of


meditation that now is musing. It will


come out from your mouth or you write it


out. You think it. Amen.


Hallelujah. And meditate on these


things.


I think I remember. There's what to


remember.


There's a lot to remember. Hallelujah.


I remember thy wonders. I remember thy


name. Psalm 20. Look at it.


Some trust in chariots. Some in horses,


but will remember the name of the Lord.


The word remember. Remember I told you


what it means to call to mind. Zaka


Psalm 20:7. Some trust in trials. Some


in horses, but we remember the name of


the Lord our God. They are brought down


and fallen, but we are risen and stand


upright, safe.


Lord, let the king hear us when we call.


Some trust in travelers, some in horses,


but we will remember the name of the


Lord. Hallelujah.


But we will remember,


we remember, we remember the name of the


Lord. Remember that name. The name of


the Lord is a strong t. The righteous


runth into it and they say remember the


name of the Lord. In my name they shall


cast a devil. They shall you see all the


things that happen in the name of the


Lord. Faith in his name is why this


crippled man is standing here. Peter


said in the gates of beautiful


I remember the name of the Lord our God.


I remember


the same way I remember his tender


mercies. Psalm 25:6 remember oh Lord thy


tender mercies and a loving kindness. So


this is a call to God to remember. But


he also in that same context talks about


that I think on it.


I think on it.


Hallelujah.


Psalm 78. Let's read that.


And they remembered that God was their


rock and the high God their redeemer.


They remembered


this is the text that says man did


angels food. He sent them meat to the


food. Verse 25 is giving a rundown of


what happened in the Exodus journey.


said they remembered that God was their


rock and the high God their redeemer


the same way they also remembered not


his hand sometimes they forgot I don't


forget the what the power of God can do


I keep it in mind I think on it I think


on the ministry of angels and all those


who think on the ministry of angels it's


the proceeds of it you will see you


can't think on what are the angels of


God doing right now in my life I know


angels are always with 247. I know


angels are helping me, guaranteeing


result for me and not see the ministry


of angels in your life. I'm conscious of


that extra. I'm conscious of the unseen.


Psalm 105 verse4, seek the Lord and his


strength. Seek his face ever more.


Remember, that's the word called to


mind. Zaka remember


remember his marvelous works that he had


done his wonders and his and the


judgment of his mouth. I remember his


marvelous works. I remember his


marvelous works.


I remember it.


I remember it


to see somebody that is thinking. Let me


read Judges for you.


I love this text.


Judges chapter 6.


Judges chapter 6. Are you here?


From verse 11.


And there came an angel of the Lord, and


sat under an oak, which was an offer,


and pertained unto Joash the Abbezite,


and his son Gideon, trenched with by the


wine press to hide it from the


Medidianite.


Now, one of the things history has not


done to Gideon because it's just to say,


"Oh, he's a coward. He's a coward." But


there are two types of coward. There's


there are cowards that do good.


Cowardly. There are cowards that don't


do any good. Now Gideon was a good kind


of coward because he was threshing wheat


to still make available for people


because because he was making this


available to the masses making this


available to people in a time where they


had seized all the harvest field. So is


that kind of rebel but he's doing it in


hiding. He's not making his own obvious


that is a reel rebel.


So he's that kind of man. So it's good


to have the proper background of Gideon.


So you say they say he's a coward but


God said that mighty man of valor. Stop


it. He already had the tendencies of


savior. Don't read the Bible foolishly.


He already had the tendencies of savior.


So it's not like was a coward coward the


way many persons are funny enough


because he was already solving people's


problem because the the enemy had


already taken hold of all the harvest


feed. So this is a man hiding to harvest


and make it available for people. So he


already had that tendency.


So that's what but look at the kind of


person he also was. So you now see the


reason why he didn't take any action.


You will see it in this conversation.


Judges chapter 6. And the angel of the


Lord appeared unto him and said unto


him, the Lord is with thee, thou mighty


man of valor.


And Gideon said unto him, "Oh my lord,


if the now notice what immediately the


angel appeared to him, look at what he


said."


Then G and Gideon said unto him, "Oh my


Lord, if the Lord be with us," cuz he


said, "The Lord is with thee, mighty man


of If the Lord be with us, why then is


all this befalling us? And where be all


his miracles?" Look at what Baba is


thinking about.


where be all his miracles which our


fathers told us of saying did not the


Lord bring us from Egypt and now the


Lord has forsaken us and delivered us


into the hand of the Medionites of


course that's not true because whenever


they turned they sinned and turned their


back against God it was clear in the in


the teachings of Moses that they will


give themsel over to other nations other


nations will come and lay siege against


them so that was not God it was their


iniquity and their sins that led them


there. All right.


And Gideon said unto him, "Oh my Lord,


if the Lord be with us, why then is all


this befalling us? And where be all the


miracles which our fathers told us of,


saying, did not the Lord bring us up


from Egypt? But now the Lord has


forsaken us and delivered us into the


hand of Medianite." Verse 14. And the


Lord looked upon him and said, "Go in


this might. Go in this thy might, and


thou shalt save Israel from the hand of


the Medidionites. Have not I sent thee?"


And he said unto him, "Oh my Lord, where


shall I save Israel? Behold, my family


is poor in man. I say I am the least of


my father's house." And the Lord said


unto him, "Surely I will be with thee,


and thou shall smite the Medidionite as


one man." You are talking about miracle,


Ni. So I'm going to use you. You will


smite the as one man. You want to see


miracle?


Funny enough, this was the person God


worked with. And you know how the story


ended, which is also the seen and the


unseen word. The sword of Gideon and the


SW of the Lord. God needed his word, but


yet it was God that fought that battle


without Gideon effort. But the sword of


the Lord and the sword of Gideon. That's


what they were saying. Imagine you had


300 soldiers that you recruited from


drinking water and observing. Then you


did not use them. What they are doing as


they are running into battle sh


of Gideon and the enemy is being


defeated.


See baba asked for miracle. He has seen


miracle that shock him. He say where is


the god that did all this miracle. That


is what he was thinking about. And God


used him to replay Moses feet. That is


Moses kind of miracle. Moses kind of


workings of miracle that Gideon is


enjoying because his thoughts were on


the miraculous. Where are his miracles?


God say go in that might. The way you


are thinking. I can use you. The way you


are thinking. The way you are thinking.


The way you are thinking. I like this


kind of thinking. I like this kind of


thinking. You must have the


contemplations of almightiness. You must


have the contemplation of almightiness


running through your head. And that's


where we stay on God's word. You must


have that thinking.


I don't know if I'm a favor. I don't


know if I'm No, we don't talk like that.


I think on the word of God. I know from


God's word that the favor of the Lord


compasses me round about as a sheet and


I'm and I med it on it. I med it on the


goodness of God. I med it on the favor


of God. I know the eyes of God run to


and for to show himself strong on my


behalf. That's what God's word say.


That's what I believe. Every detail of


God's word is what I believe. That's it.


He said the eyes of Lord go to and fro


to show himself strong. God is looking


for show himself strong on his behalf.


You have found me sir. Um I think on


God's word


say go in this thy might.


So renew your mind though that angels


are working with you and for you that


they defend your interest that you have


supernatural advantage. Romans 12 says


be not conformed but be transformed by


the renew of your mind. And how do you


renew your mind? With God's word.


So you want to talk about wisdom for


living from God's word. You want to talk


about wisdom from living from God's


word. And I see people today just say


it's all about grace.


Don't remove the place of work, hard


work. Don't remove the place of digit.


Don't remove all of those things. The


natural and the supernatural are not


fighting. An emphasis on the


supernatural is not a deemphasis on the


natural. An emphasis on the natural


should never be a deemphasis on the


supernatural. Both must work together.


say


pastor is just highly favored. Shut your


yap.


That's why you are not diligent. So


because those are excuses and yeah I've


read you know how many books I've read


even to entrepreneurship now brother


Nelson yes says book there's hardly any


book he has that I've not sometimes


people ask me sir what about this book


he's the one selling book but I have


I've read 98% of those books except they


just released them really recently


because I read they just sit down and


say success cometh now what a joke say I


just like the way pastor is able people


to multitask from being playful, from


being a from being a joker. No, now you


you envy things, envy results, envy


workings too. When you like somebody's


result, like his workings, like his


workings, too. As a teenager, when I had


read all of Papa Higgy's book, you know


what people life to do to be pursuing


woman. You know, you not marry her when


you are when you know you're not a witch


or a wizard. you who marries as a as a


teenager


you cannot focus on your life wasting


your life as a teenager time that we


have used to to build solid foundation


that even if we don't want to pray and


read Bible again we have enough material


21 I'd already read all of Kenyon's book


because I was reading side by side we


can take this book


and they are dead so they're not writing


new ones


again I finished all his books


some I bought some friends of mine have


how many people see borrow book and say


I'll give you next week some one of my


friends then


I I told him I'll give you this back


tomorrow he said nah man of God is


impossible I remember jacking that book


all through


the night to the next day finish that


book to the next Today big book oh one


of papa's big book I read everything the


first time I read read holy spirit and


his gift it was in one sitting I could


not stop it after that I rush to go by


god in l book commission with power


another book that teaches gift of the


spirit I read in one sitting if you see


that book all the pages are turned


because after reading it I ran to go and


pray all the pages was


it's just it's just god Sh God is just


God is no better of persons. Stop making


God look like he's partial. Go stop


making God look like he's partial. Stop


looking for excuses to fail. God is not


partial.


God is not partial. God does not say e I


don't like this person so I prefer this


one. I'll do it for this person. No,


that is not how God is. That's not who


God is.


Amen.


be hard working.


You see some person have you read your


pastor book there people now they not


the prophetic failures


get out he say me I'm not I'm just


coming for you tell you more things that


will pain you cuz nobody have been


talking to you that's why you are going


that way I have a question the prophetic


let that book judge you be your judge


you could not ask the book I be you have


book you read two chap page that


laziness I see among people there was a


Today I had four meetings and at the


evening I had a business meeting. I had


planned every say this is is luck. Now


you now stop stop this stupidity called


luck


business spiritual


different mixture all that day you think


it comes by luck say so even for


business so is the grace of God is it is


it preach I'm preaching that God is


supplying me


grace and wisdom as if does anointing


come on people for business


sorry or maybe I don't know it comes for


you people. I don't know about that one.


What is God's anointing coming? Am I


doing something spiritual in business?


No. Anointing is not for for natural


things or for good kind of things. No,


anointing is for spiritual work.


But we like excuse say ah


study,


be diligent.


You don't have five books, you have 40


shirts.


deceiving


foolish ladies that fall for that your


stupid trap. 40 fine fine with


empty brain. So now lead the home leader


of the home is confused.


I don't even know what we should do in


this home. I don't know what not they


read, not they think. And I'm so amazing


how some women even hate when their


boyfriends or their husbands are getting


intelligent. Shame on them. Shame on


them. Tomorrow you now say I need a


wife. What do you really want?


What do you really want? Because wisdom


is very important.


I don't regret it. I don't regret that I


I used all my allowance


as a teenager growing up buying books. I


do not regret it. I do not regret that


all the favors I got from and I was


favored a lot because I used to quote


Bible verses. I could quote half the


Bible just and so from children church I


I had fans just like all those lovely


people in our children church. So people


liked me and they would just be giving


me money.


And I continued like that. I was teenage


president for six years cuz nobody could


take it from me.


And


I was highly favored because I was in


every department in church. So the so


the pastors loved me because prayer band


I did the evangelism nid they win. So I


did every department I'm ready. Only


department I I I I withdrew from was


singing because I lost my singing voice


because I prayed down and away in my


teenage


life. So the prayer the singing voice is


gone. It's just the singing intelligence


that is that remains. So I can but the


voice has I cannot bring it back.


It is cracked beyond and


I got all those favors.


Remember a man wrote a check for me the


first time. I cash that check in level


with my legibility. I remember going to


the bank and the woman said so they can


catch can can what is it I said they


have not given us ID card yet she had to


print it out just in case I said this is


what they gave me this in school said


because of who wrote the check they


could not think they didn't even call


him but he wrote on behind that


whatsoever he gives you take it from him


as the identity so okay so they didn't


bother because he was asking me which


identity I said I don't have any


identity card yet to his eligibility Oh,


so just wrote whatever I gave them.


All that money I ran to where they said


book. There's hardly any bookshop in Ben


City. Many of them have followed up now


that I did not know and I had their


numbers. Once there's new book, they


have called me because I knew because


immedately God started telling me this


is the beginning of greatness. I know


because in place of prayer I will say I


fed my mind


all manner of books,


spiritual books. And when I began to


have all the starings for business, I


read business books, business book,


business book, business book, business


books. Did research, knew how to use


YouTube, knew how to use Google, took


courses, Harvard online business school.


You debi pack my brain full of knowledge


because knowledge, wisdom, understanding


always command resources. There's no


person with wisdom and understanding


that does not have money. Don't let


anybody be fooling you that I know


somebody that is wise and full of


understand is a lie. He's not. He's not


wise or full of understanding because if


he is, he will know how to use that


wisdom and understanding. It may be full


of knowledge but if you cannot once


knowledge shifts to wisdom and


understanding it will produce results


because you can have facts but wisdom


shows me how to use those facts.


I'm telling you now better make friends


with God has bless you. Now if I had


somebody like that in my church who I


could be collect who was selling book I


would have been in you see pastor free


marketing for is it bad and buy book and


read and make your something come from


your life read books


I had not asked any woman out the only


one I asked as the one that is in my


house I have not asked any woman out and


I'd already read a lot of books on


parenting on marriage


I just like the way pastor knows a lot


about parenting from the realm of the


spirit. Now


young people just think everything is


locked. Everything is lock lock. You you


God they lucky. Now of course we reap


the fruit of our pastor's labor. God has


blessed you guys because every time I'm


speaking I'm speaking from plenty place


of knowledge. I wish the tables were


reversed and you had all this plenty


knowledge that I was sitting under you.


I would have more results


because I didn't have it nice after the


I was a a child when a boss died. So I


didn't have it well in my teenage years


with pastors. So I had to and because I


was already in a place where they say I


know more than my teachers. So I was not


going to be satisfied with all those bad


preaching and once tongues you are


speaking every Sunday. No, I and my


brothers excelled greatly above


everybody else because we cared and


there were also some wonderful persons


and that's still friends with me to


today. Had to had to had to be


different. I cannot do this mediocrity


this failure life. No, no, no. So there


has to be more. So I started reading


books, reading books, reading books,


reading books


before jam some other influential


persons who helped me in my teenage age


to once in a month, once in two months


or three months I got to see them and


also recommended those same books and I


was already reading those same books on


EW Kenya and K again and I stayed with


with those materials at those days in


those times. Amen. Why are we saying all


of these things? Because what you do


with your mind?


What do you do with your mind? What do


you do with your mind? What you do with


your mind? Somebody said uh when I


engage with pastor in the natural about


he always has this uncommon insight


because I've read far and wide on


different. So I know the one that work


and one I know the one that the person


just wrote to make money because I have


read that one and nothing came out from


that book. I don't know


because this information that's why I


know the knowledge that can produce the


result the one if you read this one it


get more application this other one is


just uh two points that is just


embellished just make it loud but


there's there's not enough juice inside


read this one read this one amen


hallelujah


so feed your mind with God's word. Feed


your mind with God's word.


Now, this one does not look like, hey,


it's commanding power, is commanding


wisdom. Oh, sorry for you. Everything we


have been saying since rooted on this.


There's no good prayer life outside


God's word. There's no life of faith


outside God's word.


Give your mind to God's word. Submit it.


Just carry your mind and submit it to


God's word and watch what God's word


will do with your mind. Watch what even


wisdom will do to your mind.


People don't succeed by luck.


That is not the path for success.


It's not even up to 1% of the population


in the world by luck is zero point. It


has not reached 1% of the world


population that succeeded by luck.


Don't don't start what


nobody have. Uh my pattern is that I


know luck will shine on me. Have you


seen people in society you say luck


shine on them? Really? I saw somebody


said that I know there are so many ebo


persons, evil workmen like that who did


not go to school. But when did they


going to school become a perquisicide


for success? Now you not the intelligent


now. Do have you engaged those people?


They have more intelligence on marketing


more intelligence. You don't you you're


using calculator but the guy has already


calculated your amount you and you are


and you dare say you're intelligent than


him. You are being deceived by degree.


No. So street sense don't have this and


street sense is that word in the English


that they shift the word from wisdom to


shrewdness to sagacity


to prudence and that's what is found in


people who understood apprenticeship


mentorship and who had been exposed to


street life they are far wiser than the


people who uh all they do is I I I read


this book I read this book I've shared


this story with you


were in a vehicle going to boss many


years ago and there was this guy was so


happy because we knew his whole life


story. How people can be so foolish


receiving call. He I basically knew his


whole life story in that whole boss. He


was so happy. He say I got with first


class. We we knew that one from the


call. We knew he was going somewhere


only for us to get to BIO and he was


asking them that he wanted to stop at


Ruben. Ah what an idiot. You didn't ask


the conductor. You didn't ask the


driver. You didn't know where you were


going.


You was just looking. You are really a


first class.


First class of course id your team


looking say because they say you will


sit from the signboard.


Really? Because I I was the one who


engaged him because even the were


weeping for him


that you don't know where you were


going. You will not you did not tell


somebody say I told the col before I


enter though he told me to enter h you


are really a first class


is hley is shadowing customers


how can you remember shadow that's not


hing customer shadowing customers how


can you remember


I told him I I I expected better


life go break you you expected better.


Wow. Think it's your father you can


shout. I expected better. I expected


better.


So I saw first hand.


It's not to be intelligent in book. That


guy has no intelligence for life. He


will not make it.


It's not a prayer point. It's not


something that you say look even if you


give him a good position he will lose


it.


There are people that are every day


getting good jobs that lose it now.


There are people every time that get


good opportunities, but they can't keep


those opportunities.


Life punishes foolishness.


Life punishes timidity. Life punishes


foolishness.


Life judges foolishness. That's the the


exact phrase. life will judge you for


this the sentence because it says


foolishness is a sentence. Wisdom is a


sentence.


Don't like it. Don't like anything that


does not have to do with wisdom. So he


say being wise and strong with his


power,


I clean my mind with God's word.


Everybody


is not want to marry


want to marry me. You see see what comes


from not giving your mind to God's word


and is obviously blind because all the


people that mar this world are all fine


fine people. What first the person had


lacks natural sense because natural


sense should have told him that so many


persons are married in this world that


are not fine if we have judging by fine


without even having to cry on the favor


of God.


This a Christian


speaking in a wimpy manner because he's


is like life I beg life sorry for me.


Life does not sorry for people.


A lot of good people life is dealing


with them.


Life is not answering to morality


because life is already now good and


evil.


Life does not honor. Life was supposed


to favor morality but it does not. If


you good self, life go bad more.


I've told you before, life does not care


whether you raise the dead, whether you


feed the poor. You must have strong


head. You must be stronger than your


stronger than your the destiny, stronger


than the future. Not that what we be


will be. No, what we be will not be.


Rise up. Take the bull by the horn. Take


charge.


Feed your mind on God's word. told you


anybody can become anything.


Anybody can become anything. Anybody can


become anything. That should motivate


you. Anybody can become anything.


I had friends I told them give me two


years.


you'll see what I will produce


with success financially and all of


that. Ah, he didn't even reach two years


in one years of engaging uh uh in


business. They already saw it like ah


ah pastor god has favored you. I always


tell them no


because remember that deemphasis does


not that emphasis


is once that emphasis is to deemphasize


wisdom and skill is not good. So I tell


them God obviously is favoring you too.


The only difference is that you are not


hardworking. Stop making it look like


God is partial.


then either that or you are not


conscious of it but there are natural


things that we also don't always remove


that part like I said when you emphasize


that's why Paul says the grace of God is


say but I labored


understand that that that cohesion


between the grace of God but I labored I


labor in the grace of God firstians 15


understand that place of labor


labor and grace is grace but I'm


laboring combine the two so Now we can't


tell that is your labor or is the grace


of God. I like it when people are


confused like that when people are


saying is this one wisdom of God or this


one is hard work. I I don't even know


again everything blend everything join


be hard working


what we be we be. No


no no


our life works in the direction of our


predominant thought. Did you get it?


There are people who are never content


in the phases that they are in. Life is


in phases.


Be grateful to God now that you can give


5,000.


Be grateful to God when you can give 10.


Be grateful to God for every stage.


Be grateful for every say grow because


there are persons who have never grown


and expect that we will give in


billions. You are a liar. No matter how


much you sing it the answer the divine


response of God will even come back. No


no no you will not. You will even God


it's not you now. It's God that will


answer you no no you will not give in


any billions. You are a liar. God will


tell you no thousand has entered any no


thousand has entered. There are people


one full year they cannot even buy Bible


for their pastor because they think


everything is about welfare. Welfare and


life has not dealt with them. Their


pastors don't need their welfare.


Finish.


No sense of doing things right. But the


Lord God,


no sense of doing things right. Now


blame it on I don't have.


So you think all of us had you know


because I was going to I had issues with


my parents because of ministry I stopped


taking money from them. My dad was doing


relatively very well before of uh he


stopped working and uh because


investment planning and all of those


savings things they don't people don't


know all of those things. I know those


things. I learned not to be like those


people who do not take those kind of


things seriously. But I didn't need his


money. Even the time where he was doing


well and he was honorable, giving


allowance, taking care, beautiful, God


bless him. When I realized that this man


is not going to let me do ministry, I


didn't need that money anymore. I could


fend for myself. I could so that he will


see responsibility.


It's early just past the teen age and I


could take responsibility for myself.


So I know what it means to start from


zero because I started from zero. People


say things like h does not what nobody


gave many hand out to


stop waiting some people we have given


them hand out they still go back to


failure


life is fire though


hallelujah


use God's word to guard your mind's


word will form teach us. Is it not with


God's word that we cast down


imaginations and every high thing that


exalts itself against knowledge of God?


It's with God's word.


Is it with God's word that we take


thought we take captive every thought?


Second commission chapter 10. It's with


God's word that we take thought take


captive every thought that does not


obey. How do I know the thought that is


not obeying the gospel if I don't know


the gospel? If I don't know the word of


God. So because I feed myself to God's


word.


Your mind cannot imagine is with God's


word you enlarge your heart.


God's word enlarges our hearts.


God's word enlarges our heart.


Psalm 119:32,


I will run the way of thy commandment


when thou shall enlarge my heart. God's


word enlarges our heart. As much as


giving enlarges our heart, the pictures


of your heart changes.


Use God's word to cast down imagination.


Use it for heart enlargement. When you


feed yourself with God's word, this kind


of heart enlargement will happen to you.


That is in Job.


Job 22.


Receive verse 22. Receive, I pray thee,


the law from his mouth, and lay up his


words in thy heart. Ha. Receive, I pray


thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up


his words in thy heart. If thou return


to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up.


Thou shalt put away iniquity far from


thy tabernacles. Then tell your


neighbor, then


then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and


the gold of all as the stones of the


book. Now, this does not mean you will


have plenty gold. Oh, no. that then


this simply means you do not extreme


gold as anything.


Bury your gold in the dust.


That's what he's saying. You shall lay


up gold as you will see gold as nothing.


See it as nothing. The N translation the


N says throw your gold in the dust. your


gold of among the rocks of the ravine.


Throw your gold in the dust.


So is that's how you ext. Throw your


gold in the dust. Then the almighty


himself will be your gold and the


choices silver for you. So when he say


lay up gold as it's not I've told you


before is not I pile gold. I now have so


many gold. No, it's that money. I don't


fear money again. And it's in God's word


you enlarge your heart that money is not


something you worship. So you don't have


to kill your father and your mother for


it. You don't have to do illegal things,


wrong things for it. Because you have if


people could be successful like this I


choose to be. Guard your heart with all


with all diligence.


Then you will see God is more valuable


than gold and is more valuable than


silver.


For then shalt thou have thy delight in


the Almight Almighty, and shall lift up


thy face unto God. Thou shalt make thy


prayers unto him, and he shall hear


thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows, the


things you said you are going to do for


the Lord. Thou shalt also decree a shall


be established unto thee, and the light


shall shine upon thy ways. When men are


cast down, then thou shall say, you have


different responses because you have


been staying on God's word. When men are


then you shall see there's a lifting up.


Hallelujah.


Receive I pray the Lord from his mouth.


Use God's word to enlarge your heart.


Use it to renew your mind to think


properly. Use God's word to have a


possibility mindset. Use God's word to


have a miracle mindset. Use God's word


to have pictures.


Pictures of possibility. pictures of


greatness.


Amen.


I see people because they don't stay on


God's word. What kind of useless life


I'm living? I've never had to think


about that. Don't have any use. I grow


with 5,000. I don't have any useless.


It's not a useless life I'm living. I I


will make the money. I would


That's how thieves are born. Oh, you are


angry. Angry. The desire of a slugard


kill him because his hands refuse to


labor. So in all this your labor grow


because you every day there's always


somebody telling people quit your


business, quit your your your


job, go and start your own company,


start your own company. You think


everybody has the brain for


entrepreneurship. We joke too much. We


joke not everybody has the brain. That's


why there are so many entrepreneurs


today that are all suffering, living


miserably because entrepreneurship is


hard


is hard. Entrepreneurship is hard.


Starting a business is hard.


Is hard. Yes sir.


Some of you who do it with hand out some


of us no hand out. No anybody


hard work.


Put in the grind. Put in the effort.


Focus on your this and this and your


numbers. No. Okay. This and this. Put


all No.


Every business is as good as the brain


of his the owner.


your business is not doing well is your


brain and your effort. It looks painful


but it's the truth.


The brain the effort and the standards


you set


anything goes in this organization. How


can anything go not serious?


You can't push people towards being


result oriented, being excellence


oriented, being the fact that we must


achieve this or we must achieve. Say no,


I don't want to make people look like


that. Then they should quit and get out


and find another person to replace them.


What I I live by. I always tell people


Ecclesiastes


8 verse1.


You know, one of the things we can also


do with God's word, we can use God's


word to form the interpretations of


things and life. You can use God's word


to form the interpretation of things and


life. Use God's word to interpret life


better. Use God's word to form your


interpretation of things.


There are people who no matter what


happen no matter what you say they


interpret it from God for say no cannot


just catch me like that they see me like


that this not follow when we think like


this not work ecclesiastes 8:1 who is a


wise man and who knoweth the


interpionition of a thing a man's wisdom


maketh his face to shine you see I am


your countenance is different and the


boldness of his face shall be changed


wisdom there's something that wisdom


does to you you'll be bold in your


approach because there's first financial


confidence before there's financial


freedom. There's first there's that


boldness that comes from wisdom that you


know something the fact that you know


that this will work. There's a boldness


that it puts on your face that it puts


on your living. Amen. And we interpret


things from God's word.


We interpret things by God's word. God's


word gives us interpretation.


Amen. Another thing, as we stay in God's


word, we are able to have what to say.


As we stay in God's word, we are able to


have revelation knowledge. I mentioned


that when we're talking about faith


and that revelation knowledge is


faithful. The more you stay on God's


word. In fact, the next time somebody


tells you things are not working for


you, tell them which scripture are they


holding on to. Tell them which word of


God is giving them the reason to believe


that this thing will work. What in God's


word have they seen


about life, about marriage? Because


today there are mad people around and


and in society that tell us that we


should always plan for divorce. Don't


that fire them because misery loves


company.


We empathize, we sympathize. And there


are many wicked people who did not make


their marriages work good and fine.


However, you cannot make us hate


marriage. Sorry, sir. Sorry, ma'am. You


must have that doggedness in your life.


Oh, don't allow anybody make you hate


marriage or hate anything because in


every field, in everything, there is


always failures in it. And the fact that


somebody divorced does not mean that


they have failed.


Oh, what's your ticket I was going to


say before? No, because good people also


divorce because it takes two to be


married.


So one person could want it to work and


another person doesn't just want it to


work. But we cannot form our


interpretation. The same way we don't


use experiences to form doctrine. We


cannot use that experience to not be


interpretation of our life. Every time I


talk to people planning to get married,


I ask them what knowledge are you


bringing to marriage. If you bring this


knowledge of marriage is a prison, no


wonder yours is a prison. So you come


with demonic and evil mindset to


marriage. No man will tell me what to


do. Stay single. Which


which of end? Stay single. No man will


tell me what to do. Then why marry or


you did not know the husband is going to


be the head? I thought you said you were


a Christian. No man can tell me what to


do. What is tell you what to do? What


does tell you what to do mean? Are you


not the one that is choosing? Why did


you choose an idiot?


Since are you you the one that said the


proposal?


You're the one that said proposal now.


You're not the one that said you're the


one that say put the ring. Put the ring.


It was just for to to pepper your


friends.


Chose the ring. Chose the intelligence


too. So


use God's word to form pictures. Oh,


you know uh you know the ring is an


handcuff. Now you won't be handcuffed.


carrying demonic mindset into marriage


because some people we should tell them


they are babies. Say you are you you are


still a baby in your brain and you're


thinking and you are bringing that say


uh why is this thing looking tough every


toughness


baby get up living like a weakling and


is should you not be tough before your


brother's not tough on you not tough for


you did you grow up in a family I don't


understand are you not expecting that


you would obviously have disagreement


[Music]


I'm not doing it again. Uhhuh. Why did


you not walk out from your family?


I I'm done. I'm done. Your brother, I


see your brother. I see your brother.


With all their issues, there are things


to work on. It's only when you get to a


place where this can never ever be


worked on. And there's no guarantee that


anybody can get as not stupid reason I'm


done. I'm done. Because it's society


that programs people like that. And I


warned you because once you start


feeding your mind to why this way you


want to divorce what are you reading it


for? What I have never bothered to read


till date I don't know the reason for


the one that has multiple face. I don't


know why the other ones I don't know why


all those comedians I will never know


why their wives are leaving or why their


husbands I don't have that time


cuz I don't intend to leave my own


and if you have all imagination under


fire you the angel of the lord will


persecute you and make your way


say something bad will happen nothing


bad will happen no


most know that people hate pastor's wife


ah Ah people hate pastors why like and


you're not there before the pastor is


married you came to me the pastor


married I wish you married me


go break your leg


wicked man wicked woman


get out of your your demonic thinking


there was a there was a a man a woman


like that that was saying in the name of


Jesus I claim Kenneth Copelan


blow Copeland dies. This is this is true


story was claiming


there was a preacher who said that she's


a bishop now. She said and so true. I


would have shared that post but there


were just many coin coin coin come I


endorse everything


people hate pastor's wife


my


people hate pastor's wife people people


because they are wicked because they


feel like something because that's the


same people feel like some somebody took


something from them


why do you always feel like once you see


something successful the same way you


see somebody you say why you horn


They always feel like you took something


from them. Once people see somebody


having, they always feel like you took


something from them. You are affecting


them. You are cheating them. Baba, take


take charge of your life. Oh,


use God's word to clean your mind. Clean


it very well so that you have good


pictures. So that when all these


pictures are coming, you break it. Those


pictures of I don't deserve any good


thing. Break it with God's word. Those


pictures that tell you that um you


belong to the gutter, those any picture


that is not consistent with God's word,


use God's word and wash your mind. Wash


it. Wash it. Wash your mind.


Meditate and internalize on God's word.


Amen.


Even Ruth that had issues, husband died,


children died,


still got a good man.


Even Rahab got married


use God's word. What have you done that


will not hear what word? I know. I know


where I'm coming from. I know where I'm


coming from. I know where I'm coming.


Clean man with God. Sister not great.


brother not great I know where I'm


coming from I know where I'm coming


which where you are coming from


what about where you are going to


then I want to share their testimony and


it is very wicked of you people who know


about people's past and keep you are the


the broadcaster


do you know that this brother used to be


like this and this like this wicked man


and that that was a soul winner too that


one now that one Now that creature says


so winner that is doing that thing say


you know the sisters pass


that thing cannot work on me there's


nobody can tell me about their past that


will make me not like them if they are


born again they are born again be pass


they tell me you know this brothers I


don't care about his pastor


I don't care about his pastor I care


about his future I care about now the


future I don't know I don't care about


any where anybody's coming from I care


about do they know Jesus I care about


have they are they filled with the


spirit I care about that going forward.


Don't come and make me not like anybody


because


I feel like and the problem also comes


from these testimonies where he say I


want to share my story. Uh when I was in


the world there was all manner Christian


but Christian people will not forget to


is God that forget our iniquity. They


don't forget say every time.


Oh so that was the brother that was into


kidnapping.


say once their children are going,


he will kidnap you.


Glory be to God. I I I used to be


a cultist. I used to be a killer. I have


shot like 50 persons in this life.


As he come down, the person sitting by


his side is sh say well done sir.


I used to do hookup before but now


you're not a born again finish


that that's that's a sinner that's a


sinner that's a s winner that is talking


all these things that knows and see


don't make friends with a gossip


don't make and those of you that enjoy


gossip you are a witch you are a wizard


you enjoy it And it will it will come


around


if you like. Don't start seeking messy


now. You will reap it. Your children


will reap. Think is a joke. It will


always come back to haunt you. Continue


to be the new one. You tear people to


shreds. Your your business is another


another story.


And you what have you produced with all


of that thinking? Don't worry. Life will


come back for you. Life will come back


for you. You say no sir. Is it that you


believe in Kama? No.


No. Jehovah Kama. No. I cannot believe


in karma. I'm not a Buddhist. Neither am


I. Hindus. I don't believe in karma.


However,


shaking together


that was Jesus. It was letters in red.


And that was not karma Jesus was


teaching. That was not karma Jesus was


teaching. No, no, no, no, no. Karma has


some spiritual implications added to it.


If you are you studied on it, you will


know it's not the same thing. When Jesus


say that you have used that we use not


we that they have never used that people


use for offering


[Music]


together that thing is is telling you


the measure you give to others


it will


press down shaking and that method think


of Gary


I I don't know if they still do that


thing. The one you use hand to support


and you put inside the lil bag


that shake it together shall life give


you


stop it. Oh and I'm tell if you are like


that start crying to God now. Mercy Lord


I'm serious. Hey God,


I'm serious. So Lord be merciful unto


me. Lord mercy forgive me my sins. I


go it will come back. Ah no no no no no


no no. It will be one thing you did and


the whole world will tear you to shred.


The whole world because everybody has


been waiting for you.


Everybody we have been waiting for when


we hear about her. The great one that


knows everybody's secret. Aha. We are


waiting to hear his own. We are waiting


to hear our own. and we will not pity


you. That's life.


All those some people I don't know the


energy they have for other people's


gist.


Use this time to make money. Choose this


time to bring out something good out of


your life. I say you get another one.


Tell me another one. Time is going.


You can't get back that time.


And you're not not like you are a leader


that you're going to use that to judge


something to solve something. No.


See another story. See the


use God's word and clean your mind.


Have a possibility mindset from God's


word. Have a possibility mindset with


God's word.


Use God's word and clean your mind. Form


pictures


not by children they serve God. No we


serve God. You must remove those evil


picture because right from when I was


teenager I started correcting my my my


members parents because I go and visit


say picking preo.


[Music]


I said man no now you are the mother of


this child. She said no see ask you


straight because speaking one square go


this speaking go spo


true to god that lady as a teenager got


pregnant two times gave birth


that daughter I was trying to help I


finally told her I said you want to see


prophecy over this one beginning one go


you have destroyed this one's life want


to destroy this one too with your great


prophecy oh mother in Zion


Leave her. You have left her now into


different things. Say bring the child.


Let's teach the child God's words. Say


go. What a prophecy of raising children.


Train up a child the way he should go.


You say go.


Such irresponsible parents


that don't care about what they are


producing, what they say.


Think all those children that are agro


slapping people on the highway. You see


they grow they planned it from


they planned it from small minus the one


that they use that they sang about in


case


that one cuz that's the potential that


all of there were to be like


mystery


I've confused those that only those that


know so see possibility mindset


renew our mind with God's word and think


properly is that okay sir


It is in staying on God's word that you


will change the conversation of your


soul, the conversation of your mind


because mind what you say in your heart


and when you stay on God's word that is


even the Matthew chapter 6 where Jesus


said uh take no thought what you shall


eat what you shall drink


because it's all of that thought that


has brought people to where they are.


Don't feed yourself on junk. Oh,


and feed yourself on junk.


Change the conversation of your soul or


your mind. I have no one to help me. I


have no one. That's all you think about.


How can a child of God say, "I have no


one to help him."


Have you killed God?


This is a child of God. I have no one to


help me. I have no one to help me. I


have no Not read Bible. Not Stay inside


God's word. No one to help me.


Even the orphan he say no father said


then the Lord will pick him up.


I have no one. I have no one. I have


every time I have no one. I have no one.


I have no one.


I have the Lord.


I have the company of saints. I have a


local church. That's why now you go


there attend of church


because the church ought to be a family.


So you say a Christian that is in a


local church I don't have anybody


obviously means once we close you run


off you greet nobody interact with


nobody so nobody knows you because you


don't want anybody to know you want to


be anonymous forever


use God's word to change the pictures


you get it use God's word and change the


pictures of your mind


I don't think I will amount to think ah


from God's word is where you got that


picture.


I don't think


things will ever work for me. It's from


God's word you got that picture. So no,


we don't. No, no, no, no, no. That's see


these are things that have distracted


pastors. That's why some pastors now


they teach about is is his is life


success principles because every day I


interact with people and realize that


people not wise. Oh god, the number of


people who are not wise, who even


believe that they are wise because maybe


they graduated well from school.


Look,


people not wise. Many oh


people not know how to do anything. Many


oh


I believe in um I believe in equality. I


believe that the husband is not uh


greater than the wife. I believe it I


hold on to that belief that the husband


is not greater than the wife. The


husband is not the head. I believe it. I


I don't know what you mean by greater


but the husband is not the head of the


wife and this a child of God though in


one marri then we are surprised how how


he or she after two years 3 years 5


years 10 years she has always believed


it he has always believed it


because I told you there was a post I


saw say she mentioned the village she


was from he said they they want they


want this lady from this I for my local


government not from my village. Thank


God.


court. I said


from this day in he said is this I said


ah


they they want her to submit


don't want that she's divorced


see they want teach people not to submit


or submit fair mar and let this your


principle work the same way they have


caught many of those people that are


doing activist on no man can tell me


what to do they catch one they recorded


she was pounding yam


No man can tell me anything. No man can


tell me anything. She will go and post


deceiving her followers. Why is secret?


She almost even used to crawl to serve


the husband. The husband does not just


mind all this rubbish she's writing.


Just be writ for money. She the wife


deceiving young people


because those young people want to be


deceived because there was God's word


they did not see. There was books they


could have read and not see. is is how


Christians today still learn from Tik


Tok,


learn from Instagram


and it's not wise things. So anything


they just see just put yeah the brother


with singlet that wants to put more in


his body than he should put his people's


leader because he's fighting for the


struggle of Nigeria. Must must all your


pictures be failures


and you know 85% of what that person


represent opposes your morals opposes


what you you feed yourself like the


individual for his fight against


injustice and people taking vendors and


all the people that take advantage of


people but don't buy into his life


principles obviously a perverted person


and a a neg is your everything. You say,


"Wow,


my mentor have said it again.


You could choose."


And the good thing is


amazing work these people do. There are


so many of them nowadays with their ring


lights just start talking fighting for a


better great


I like them for the good that they do


for people. But everything is subject to


interpretation. Once I pass it through


God's word, I reject them. I reject


every other thing that is sounding


against God.


Because I can't swallow everything. Oh,


and because I don't have that time to be


living by fation technique. That's not


why they taught us in chemistry. I I


cannot every time f I know. I beg I beg.


Let me just my mind is not say say


decantation will work you know it say


chromatography will work for this one.


What many fation technique are we using


for this matter? Say no is the way you


fed it. you would have used this other


seam


like yeah that wow this person has


fought again and people have gotten


their money wow amazing because you


should always like what is good but my


mind is not a does mean that anything


just be dumping it dumping it there are


Christians who envy who envy immoral


people who envy wayward people


and They have sisters and brothers that


will be there and cannot tell that what


kind of this they have Christian


brothers and sisters as too who see


those things and ignore. Why are you


complicit in people's foolishness now?


What is the meaning of this?


You are envying David said and I saw the


wicked I said I would have en but I saw


that then I looked again dried off for


the prosperity of fool shall slay them.


There are so many good envy. I don't


envy. I I like the fact that people


should make money, but I don't envy any


person that is not saved. I don't envy.


I don't And that envy is the good envy.


I don't admire say no. No, no, no.


Must all your mentors be Christians? No.


But don't swallow wrong principles.


Don't swallow long wrong values.


My mind is important. It is not. It does


being


use God's word and form the pictures of


miracles.


Have a miracle possibility brain. Have a


miracle brain. Have a possibility brain.


Hi


people ask me say man pastor how can you


not think that this thing will not work?


I cannot think it again. So I've lost


the ability to think that the thing will


not work. The only thing I think is it


either a work or a walk. I have re I


have renewed my mind. I've washed it.


That there are some kind of thing you


even think I will mark you. You just


notice that my number is not going.


No, you can't be so close to me and have


that thinking. Same thing I try to do.


People who come around me, I try to


ensure that because people going to say


they close to pastor and he's not wise.


No. Then there are people like that I


just wash my hand off. I give up on


them. And then you not put add me to


that madness called the way you live.


No, no, no, no, no. Not put me in that


one. I say h what the pastor say pastor


is the enemy. Oh, pastor coral to a bad


person. know that I've left you since


you want to go the way because there are


many president have never heard me


correct them once


because people don't know that


correction coming from your leader is a


privilege they think they like to talk


they like to talk they like to talk ah


it's access that gives opportunity for


correction but I don't have any access


to you why would I be I can only correct


you from poopit other than that don't


finish


but there are people closer to you


because I want everybody close to me to


succeed I want everybody body around me


to make progress to do well in life to


win.


Amen. Amen.


Use God's word


to form pictures


to form pictures. The same way


imagination high things against of God's


word were formed. Use God's word now to


build proper pictures in your mind.


Pictures of greatness, pictures of love,


pictures of honor, pictures of grace.


Build proper pictures in your mind.


Angels act on our thoughts.


How we think matters.


Angels act on our thoughts.


Did you get it?


So, be careful how you


think. Be careful how you think. Be


careful how you think.


I will not give my mind.


I'll use God's words to wash my mind to


wash it very well. Let the conversation


of my soul change.


Let the conversations where


dash monkey banana look at this how you


talk.


Use God's word to wash your mind so that


you don't have those conversations.


I don't know if things are going to work


out for me.


is how a Christian is thinking. No, I


don't think like that.


Anybody can just die anytime. Ah,


this how you are thinking.


[Music]


I don't think like that. Oh, so I feed


on God's word. Matthew 4:4, man shall


not live by bread alone, but by every


word that proceeds from the mouth of


God. Your life goes in direction of


God's word. You feed on.


I live by God's word. I live by God's


word. I live by God's word. God's word


is food for me. Thy words were found and


I did eat them and they were the joy and


the rejoicing of my soul. We feed on


God's word.


When I find your word, it's like I found


great spoils.


Great spoils.


I rejoice at thy word as one that find


great spoils. That's 9 verse 162.


Great peace have they that love thy law.


Met it on these things. I think on God's


word.


I stay on God's word.


The eyes of my understandings


enlightened. Notice that Ephesians one


eyes understand that I may know what is


the hope exceeding of his power. My mind


need to know that I have exceeding


greatness power. My mind needs to know.


I change the pictures of my mind.


Hallelujah.


Amen.


Hallelujah.


Amen.


So use God's word to form a miracle


mindset. Use God's word to have


pictures.


There are some people this thing is


beneath me. This thing is beneath me.


What about the foolishness of your


normal thinking? That one is not beneath


you. Is this why this one is beneath me?


Why you say some things are beneath


them? I'm I'm looking I'm wondering


looking at the person who say this thing


is beneath me


no hard work no intelligence sorry all


this is always be looking painful


because once you are guilty of something


you always feel like


it's not fair then why stay down rise up


now he said you are using it to be angry


my friend


he said no no no produce say some people


like to argue everything is argument


argument oh produce With the wisdom that


you have, we see the weight. This is the


21st day. We are still watching what the


person has produced without thinking


because whether you like it or not,


wisdom is justified of our children.


We will always see the proof of your


wisdom.


We always see it. We always see it. We


always see it. And God's word is the


place of wisdom. So if I want to be wise


with the power of God, I I I stay on


God's word. I'm wise with the powers of


God. I'm wise about how the unseen work.


Angels commit themselves to you when you


stay on God's word


because you are the man. You are the


man.


Greatly beloved.


That's how Daniel was being greeted.


I stay on God's word. God's word renews


my mind. Changes the pictures of my


hope, the pictures of possibility I


have.


I believe and once you are thinking


normally, hardworking in the natural


bring all those other thinking. I


believe that I can just step out of my


ass and 100 million era contract will


come. I believe somebody can just call


me and say


I believe


angels can doing advert for me. I


believe I believe I I believe there's


everything I believe anything


supernatural I believe. There's you can


never tell a supernatural story and I


say it's a lie. Maybe lie to that person


but I believe because there is nothing


beyond the hand of God.


Feed on that. Feed on that kind of


possibility.


He how can one just jump to 20 and you


did mass one can jump to 20


one can jump to 20 there are different


numbering system


that's why they teach you different type


of numbers there's even number there's


odd numbers


numbers are in t in five in 20s must not


always be so I can do 1 20 40. Yes, sir.


I must not do 1 2 3 4 5. No, I must not


number like that, sir. Yes, sir. I must


not number like that, sir.


Amen. Amen. I will do well. I will do


well. I think about that.


Say, I who am a nobody. No, I'm not a


nobody.


Don't talk like that. Use God's word to


clean the pictures of your mind.


Use God's word. I don't really deserve


much. Ah,


I don't really deserve anything great.


There are many believers that think like


that.


Once is step into the limelight.


They have to fidget hide. They have to


always act slavish. They can never rise


no matter how much effort you put into


trying to get them because everyone will


retreat back to the pictures of his


mind.


Everyone will retreat back to what he


has done to his mind. The conversations


of his soul. No man is greater than the


conversations of his mind. No man is


greater than the conversation of his


soul.


When I began to think that oh


I'm worth what the blood of Jesus


what type of a man to gain the word and


lose his soul. So I'm greater than the


whole world. My soul is greater than the


my worth


is great. Nothing is beyond me. Nothing


is too big for me. Nothing is too. And


Jesus say that people are using to form


religious mindset.


They say what minute this waste he say


no.


The poor you have with you always. The


poor you have with you always. Oh.


Say no no it's too. It's not too much.


It's not too much. I had to wash my mind


from all those yama yama thinking, dirty


thinking.


Ah, it's too much. Ah, it's too much.


That is too much. And that's why some


persons have nobody has ever done them


well because it's always too much.


5,000. No. Does that mean I should not


now have a I should not now be grateful?


No. I'm grateful. Thank you. And every


year I share a post two times every


year. I always thank all the people who


always give to pastors. God bless you.


Because these days we cannot see all the


names and numbers again. The way the


alert used to come, we cannot see the


name again. We can just say


God bless you. Oh, hand of God increase


in your life. Oh, what you give you see


the same thing in your life. Because


it's not about the left hand seeing what


the right hand is doing. Sometimes the


left hand can see what the right hand is


doing. Sometimes left hand doesn't see


what the right hand. There are different


types of generosity.


Amen. But no giving loses its reward


because Jesus said no cup of cold water


you give to his anointed will lose his


reward. That is Jesus letters he read.


No cup of cold water you give will lose


his reward. I believe Jesus.


I believe I believe Jesus. I believe


Jesus. You may not, but me, I do. I


believe Jesus. I believe because it was


Jesus that said it. Doesn't matter any


argument in society today. I believe


God.


Hallelujah.


So use God's word and change the


pictures.


Change those pictures you have in your


mind. Change those pictures.


Use God's word and change those


pictures. Change those pictures. You


have those possibility. No. Have


possibility mindset.


Can anything good come out? No.


Something good can come out. I don't


think I can. No. I can. I can. I will. I


should. I must. I can't. I can't. All


your confessions is can't. Can't. Can't.


I can't. I can't. I can't. No. I I I I


can. I will. I can I will use God's word


and change the pictures.


I didn't come from anything so I can't


go. No, no, no. Stop it. Oh,


I can be called to ask at any time. No.


What concern me? I don't want to go


there. There are useless people that are


leaders. Look at he's talking. He never


had the opportunity to see his principal


face to face. Keep quiet.


When you when you feed on negativity,


when you feed on negativity, it's not a


useless position. Why is your own


candidate wanting to go there? If it's


such a


what a useless place, look at somebody


that has not even seen the proper office


school once.


Say, why will somebody say it's a


privilege to see the president?


[Music]


is a privilege.


Learn the protocols of greatness.


Talking like a a street tout.


Let God's word wash you. Let's let God's


word clean your mind.


Negative, negative, negative. No.


Positive, positive, positive. You can't


catch me with negativity.


No. I'm always I'm always positive. I


believe the best. I hope the best. I


expect the best.


This is God's word and clean your mind.


Oh, clean it very well.


Once somebody gets to 40,


they can not


but start falling sick. All manner of


sickness will begin to pursue them.


Yeah. You and your household that is


thinking like that is you is you don't


say we


we don't you can speak for yourself.


know how to when failure to say we


I've always answered people who say all


men has come plus your father all your


brothers all women are with you plus


your mom most especially your mom


travity must begin at home


because if you didn't live with a scum


you won't be saying scum scum scum scum


scum your mouth is a scum mouth


whose person mom you want you say all


all just be generalizing


The f of generalization


the same way they do all women are men


are logical women are emotional insults


it's not your mother your sister don't


insult my own


my mom taught me train me to be


emotional I can cry I have feelings


don't know the kind many you know


nothing moves a man now you know mar you


mar my sister thinks logical is normal


parenting teach people to think women


don't think now women they take first


everywhere


you just gather now in the marriage you


are conforming to stupidity in the name


of your marriage say we don't think we


only feel huh


say that's not what they use it to mean


what they not use it to mean any small


step you know women don't really think


that muchh and women are not in the


marina writing don't really think


That's not from God's word. Thinking and


feeling is not a gender thing. Every


human being can feel and think.


You have written it as as if it's gender


role. Say there's a research and that


research is a lie. I don't need to know


the research. God's word nullify that


nonsense research and society has proven


that is a lie.


Women are evil. Don't marry now.


Mar all women are evil. They trust woman


finish. Yes. Stay single sir.


Go punish another person daughter.


Negative pictures people bring into


marriage. Bring into everything.


Negative pictures.


Negative pictures.


I was correcting somebody recently. I


say trust, sincerity


and trans transparency is not a term in


marriage. It's not a term in


relationship because transparency is for


non-living thing. No human being can be


transparent. Do you know what


transparency mean so that we use that


synonyms what they simply mean is trust


not go put yourself for trouble. What I


demand is trap


trapy. What I chi


now this is how go. This is how trai go.


I was walking down the road as I I I I


this is a woman being transferred to her


husband. I I look I saw a man driving a


f say wow this guy is fine know I I I


saw


handsome man say husband say what is


happening here? You saw a man driving.


You recognize that somebody else is


handsome other than me


don't come out inside


everything I everything I say the man


say why women dress like I saw babe you


won't believe I saw some women they just


this BB women say you observe their bum


bum what a joke say is be champless


transpent


even god


does not do that thing that you are and


he he sees all things. So, but look at


how he relates with us. You you you are


not no human being is equipped to handle


all info about anybody. No human being.


I'm not saying for idiot husband that


headphone don't think I'm not talking


about those those those people that are


doing evil thinking I'm trying to


endorse. I'm not saying you already know


your marriage is toxic. Give me your


phone. Give me your phone. Give me your


phone. Give me your phone.


Tom and Jerry. Tom and Jerry. Give me


your phone. Give me your phone. Give me


your phone. Give me your phone. Give me


your phone. Where's your phone? Give me


Give me Give me Give me Give me a phone.


Give me a phone. Give me a phone.


Who said message?


I not I not You can read.


I not initiate this message. The person


send


because I cannot be judged for what I


did not.


Yeah.


Give me


people have already patterned their life


over all of


this warning signs were all there. Where


are you right now? Do a video on your


video now. Let me see you. Who are you


with? You are a babe sir. You are a babe


sir. You don't deserve even you don't


deserve any woman in your life. You


don't deserve a man. You don't deserve


to have friends.


Who are you with right now on your


camera? Zoom around. Show me the


environment


because I can't stand men talking to


you. Really? You have been with me for


primary school


on intelligence you have used to destroy


your life.


Trust is when trust is broken those time


it takes time to build it again because


the trauma the individuals have been


through. get that but not sane person


just shook head and right from the get


go is always


you are not a non-living thing


you're not a non-living thing


that we can see through sir you are no


you are a human being sir we can't see


through you


some phrases have put people in trouble


just see what you mean trust sincerity I


can't know everything that happened to


and you need to tell me everything that


happened in the whole day. I sorry ma I


can't I don't have that. Sorry if you I


don't have that time. Everything that


happened the whole day. Everything that


happened the whole day sir. Everything


happened the whole day man. Leave no


detail out. So we 24 hours to mention


what happened in 24 hours. Now


leave out no detail.


If you are jobless please


just put camera all over me.


There's a place for all of those things.


Trust is a term in relationship.


Trust there are terms for relationship.


There are terms for everything makes it


see through translucent


trans


all your terms human being. Oh now so I


see all the thought


why is this woman looking at me I said


then you now foolish man don't go


produce qu


is this lady looking some you go and say


is this for us because you could not


know that your mind you say you throw


away that one say I see say I need to be


transparent the way my mind is way I say


it renew my


Are you with me at all?


Have proper pictures.


Build trust, build sincerity, build


honesty. Those are and those are


stronger terms


than the non living


non-living team that you want to use to


destroy your life.


Hallelujah.


Be sold out.


I mean, bury your mind. Sold out to


God's word. Bury your mind in God's


word.


Number four is submission and


orchestrated actions.


Supposed to end this thing, but I don't


want to do it on a Wednesday, so I


prolonged it deliberately. Orchestra,


submission and orchestrated action.


Number four, how to be wise and strong


in his power.


Submission and orchestrated action.


submission and orchestrated action. Now,


this for me is one of the the greatest


things you would ever learn,


James 4


verse 6 and 7. But he giveth more grace.


Wherefore he said, God resists the proud


and gives grace to the humble.


Submit yourself therefore to God.


I don't know of any other thing that


angels look out for


other than this thing. This submission.


Ah, how submitted you are to God. How


submitted you are because they observe


our actions.


Submit yourself to God.


Resist the devil and he will flee. Many


people want to resist the devil without


being in submission to God. That's why


it's not working.


Because by their submission, they


already in league with the devil. Can


you be rebuking who you are in league


with? They in league with him already.


Submit to God.


What a term.


Submit yourself therefore to God.


I'll say this again so that we can learn


uh u look at God who we submit to. Just


of course please if you have an issue


with uh that phrase transparent please


be transparent with your husband and


your wife please that know what you mean


by it. I was just talking to people who


want to have sense. So keep if you if


transparency will make you not listen to


my message please be transparent with


your husband and your wife please. So


now you say pastor does not believe in


transparency. Now you know I believe in


trust sincerity but there is no human


being that is see through and all those


see through is what has brought I've


been leading people since I was in


children church how many leading have


you led so there is a lot of problems


that come from sincerity because I said


it the way no because I want everything


that enter my mind because I say no now


you not say no now they know the meaning


of transparency Because everything that


happened to my mind I thought anything I


said anything I did I'm going to tell


you then you should be like God should


be able to feel to know which one I do


not believe in


but you don't want to be like God but


you want to have what only God can do


only God can see through a man all


things are naked to him sir


even the ones that they police like that


people are very smart to people No


method. So


we given our wisdom go and destroy your


life. People are intelligent.


So like I said because I I got the


feedback so please be transparent that


don't have time to be debating wisdom.


Every man is justified by his


wisdom justified. Your marriage will


show it. So I make sure you practice to


the letter because I'll come for all of


you that practice to the letter. I can


promise you how it will not last.


People say things that they don't they


don't do and they put other people in


trouble cuz I had to ask somebody


recently, what do you mean by this


phrase? And what the person was telling


me was totally anti- good word. I said


which human being can do this on another


human being say that's what I want ma


you are you are toxic you were raised a


dysfunctional way ma


what kind of see through is this


no


honest sincere here is more powerful


than that. You say everything. You can


give details of your day, do all of


that. Of course, shouldn't if you if you


don't want to lock your phone, no


problem. But it should never be that you


already because those are already made


principles that put people in trouble in


their relationships right from the


getgo. So the partner was not this but


became it because there was always what


I feared most. Congratulation. You have


seen what you feared most. You have


always waited long for this day. Things


are subject to interpretation


because no matter how much you feel like


I know, I know, I know it's not always


the way you see it. Oh, you say no, you


can't tell me that. Ah,


life will teach you that things are


subject to interpretation. Sir,


amen. Even God that we submit to


there are people you you just tell them


five details they can never see you the


same way again can never see you the


same way again they will never they will


keep holding you with those lenses


they will keep holding you to those


lenses no I'm not saying there are


things there are things you should not


discuss with your spouse no that's not


what I'm saying


you can talk about anything that people


hold on to that they learn from movies


and and uh Cinderella kind of story


lines is what puts people in trouble cuz


they're not ready for reality


because even the person ultimately


claiming that see true we still have to


depend on what you said.


We can never be with everybody. Even if


we are with them, we can't be in their


mind. And God starts judgment from


thoughts. God starts judgment from


thoughts. Because God knows how powerful


thoughts are.


Submit therefore to God. Resist the


devil and he will flee from you.


The life of submission is a life of


power. If you are in submission to God,


oh boy. Sold out to the purposes of God.


There's something there. Sold out to the


purposes of God. But people say, "I have


never had God tell me to turn here to


bend here." Because you are not in


submission to God. Now, I don't need to


pray, God will tell me not to bend. If


there's a bend that I'm supposed to, if


there is a straight road I'm on, God


will tell me to keep going straight. If


there's a bend and I did not pray and


because God will still tell me to bend.


Yeah, as long as there's a B will tell


me because I'm in submission to I pick


the slightest impulse for what God is


saying. My ears are attuned to the heart


of God. If there's something God wants


me to know, I will know. If there's


something God wants me to tell somebody,


I will pick it. Something you say to


God, that's submission to God. And


that's where you get those orchestrated


action because life does not tell you


now this is the action that will bring


great things. Life does not announce it


first. Now get ready. This is the action


that we bring. Life does not announce


it.


Amen. Amen. So those this could have led


to this. You must know that those


moments and it's in submission to God.


It's in submission to God. Hallelujah.


Serve the Lord with all your heart.


That's submission to God. Supernatural


beings don't joke with it. uh they bind


themselves. Many years ago, the Lord


said to me


that you have said you will live for my


purposes alone.


Angels have bind themselves to you since


you made that committer in your heart


that nothing will make you not do God's


will.


I didn't know that. I I heard this years


ago. I said


they have bind themselves to you.


Angels rejoice to be on mission with you


because such is the heart that God looks


for that sold out to the things of God.


I have no regret dropping everything


when I went to preach the gospel.


Dropping everything for Jesus.


Supernatural beings attend to people


like that. Sold out to the things of


God, the plan and purpose of God because


and when is they they they know how to


keep record. They know how to intercede,


mediate and negotiate for you.


Submission is a life of worship.


You can't serve God and Mmon but people


do and that's how they are not serving


submission. submission and orchestrated


actions because God will orchestrate


your steps. It is not in man to direct


himself.


Is that not Jeremiah?


So that's God leads us. God guides us.


Hallelujah. I live my life in submission


to God. That's how I live my life. I


live my life in submission to God. In


submission to God. I submit to his


wisdom. I submit to his leading. That's


why he say the leading of the spirit is


for the submitted. Those who submit to


God, God leads them. Those who submit to


God, God leads them. I live life in


submission to God.


People who are always hasty. No, I never


make haste. No, I never make haste. I


never make haste. No, that kind of


haste, that impetuousness.


So I always tell people, so you didn't


get any check in your heart. Ah


how they follow God


have check that nudge that


avoid hast


but you are doing things on time and on


point. Hallelujah.


Amen.


Sold out to the purposes of God.


Submit to God.


Submit to his word. Submit to his


leading. Where you can hear, "My son, my


daughter,


my son, my daughter, my son, my


daughter,


my son, my daughter."


You can eas


go here, do this. I live my life in


submission to God. I bow in the worship


of God. I'm surrendered to God. God can


speak to me. God can tell me anything.


God can direct me. God can lead me and I


will follow.


And much of being wise in your daily


affairs


comes in this thing because it is simply


about your actions. nothing


the I know because it's in your actions.


Angels is every day and actions is an


everyday thing. So your actions must be


in surrender to God. I submit to God. I


submit to his leading. I submit to his


ways. I submit. He say yeah here I bend.


He say go here I go. In the name of


Jesus.


I'm led by the spirit of God. I follow


the leading of the spirit is what God


tells me that I do. Stand on your feet.


I'm led by the spirit of God.


I'm led by the spirit of God. I'm led by


the spirit of God.


I submit to God.


I submit to his word.


Amen.


The ministry of angels


say the angels rejoice over one's soul


that is saved. That means they watching


out for actions and because the man's


heart was not pure towards God. We see


those texts in in first Samuel where


second Samuel first king 2 kings is hard


because the heart of the king's heart


you see so the angel of the Lord so this


supernatural forces


the remember I'm talking about unseen


forces influences and power


hallelujah in submission to God I have


unseen influences like how did you just


know to do it I just did it I walk. I


just did it and he enter


on seen influence. My life is guarded by


a force. God is guiding my steps,


guiding me.


And every day I'm seeing the result of


that life of obedience that I did it


like this. I went here like this. Hey,


it's working. Oh,


it's working.


I'm led


by the spirit of God.


I know where to turn. I know where to


go. I know what to do.


At every point in life, I know what to


do. I know how to do what to do. That is


in the leading of the spirit. That is in


the leading of the spirit. I know where


to go. I know who to meet.


You say those things a lot.


You open yourself to God's not say,


"God, you can't talk to me about this."


No, you can talk to me about anything,


sir.


Seek him first. Follow I mean follow on


to know him. Live my life in submission


to God's will and plan and purpose.


Hallelujah.


There are people I just randomly call


and they are shocked. If I was not


living submission to God, will I be able


to just call those random say ah s the


call just shocked me just ah and I say


something on point one say why are you


thinking like this first was shock like


ah


first time for pastor to call me and say


why you thinking like this shows that


I'm open to gospel I'm hearing God for


people


ear


everything Open


Baba is good. Oh, it's good for your


life. It's good for the results that you


you want. My life is open to God's


leading. Thank you, Jesus.


Because once you learn these


orchestrated actions, you will never


argue with people who say, "Is it by


giving? Is it by going here?" They have


never had God. I've had God tell me,


"Send this person this amount and keep


sending it every month." I've had God


tell me this person, ensure that that


person, this thing that the person is


trying to do succeed. Ensure that you


allow, you don't allow this person fail


in this. And God is talking to me as if


he gave me the money because he did


because I can't remove God from my


prosperity because the wisdom of God is


involved. The leading of God is


involved. God owns everything that I


have. I don't have something that God


does not have. God is is my Lord. I'm in


submission to him. And that is even how


he taught me about wealth and all of


those things.


I'm a steward.


As much as I know I'm God's son, that I


have an ownership mentality, but I also


have a stewardship mentality.


I'm a steward.


And is in service, is in submission. You


will never know the how powerful this


until you start doing it. Until you


start submitting to God. I taught you


last year about that a house that swept.


Why did the devils because not submitted


to God? When you hear some people say


how come that person was thinking that


how come those voices he not they


submitted to God. Satan fears a man who


is sold out to God. He could have won.


He will never be because he knows he has


already lost. He has lost in your life.


He has already lost you to God. Satan


fears a man that is sold out to God. He


knows that this one it's not about the


morality of your action. It's about that


your heart has bowed in the lordship of


God.


I will worship no other. That was David


man God's heart. I worship. And he was


the only one of all of Israel's king


that had no no dent of doing anything


idolatrous.


No dent of woriing any other thing. I


worship only God. I worship only God.


Him only will I serve him only will I


serve. I live for the Lord. I live for


his word. I live for his work.


Sold out to God. That's you


in the name of Jesus.


That's the kind of person you should be.


Sold out to God. sold that to his world.