service again the eyes of our


understanding will be flooded with light


to leave you with a greater


understanding of your word your plan and


your purpose again even as we


investigate the unseen word as we teach


on unseen forces we will be wise and


strong with your path in the name of


Jesus that in this service we declare


that the things that ought to be said


will be said the things that ought to be


done will be done to the praise and


glory of your name. Amen.


God bless you. Have your


seats. Amen. Romans chapter 15. As


we delve into God's word


this morning. Romans chapter 15. Hope


you can hear me loud and clear.


Amen. Romans chapter 15. And we will


read from vers 4. It says for whatsoever


things were written at four time were


written for our learning. Whatsoever


things were written at four time were


written for our learning. The word


learning is the word scalia explanation


teaching admonition. The things that


were written our full time were written


for our learning. So we have the


scriptures was written for our learning


that we through the patience and the


comfort of scriptures might have hope


expectations. So when we read the


scriptures, we have stories that gives


us patience and comfort. However, they


were written for our learning. We're


written for our learning. We ought to


learn from the scriptures. Amen. We


ought to learn from the scriptures. We


ought to learn from the


scriptures. Amen. We ought to learn from


the scriptures. 2 Timothy chapter 3


and:15 he says, "And that former


child, thou has known the holy


scriptures, which is able to make thee


wise unto salvation through faith which


is in Christ Jesus." And he says, "All


scripture is given by inspiration of God


and it is profitable for doctrine."


Amen. So the scriptures gives us


doctrine. Now again we have emphasized


this over the uh years that Genesis to


Malachi and Matthew to Revelation are


not completing they are not conflicting.


In fact Paul said I said none other


things than those things which Moses in


the law and the prophet did say. So all


that Paul taught he taught from Genesis


to Malachi. Amen. Peter taught from


Genesis to Malachi because that was the


scripture they had. In fact, the


translation, the Septuag, the Greek


translation of Genesis to Malachi was


available in the time of Jesus. Amen.


And they had that scripture. That's


where the uh apostles taught from. Amen.


So we mustn't have this idea that oh


that's Old Testament because when we


talk about the supernatural and we read


some Old Testament verses some very


mischievous persons who are not well


grounded in the facts of the covenant in


the new covenant believe that oh new


covenant old covenant old covenant is


Genesis to Malachi. Old covenant has


never been Genesis to Malachi. In fact


there is no internal evidence that has


old covenant as Genesis to Malachi. No


apostle, neither did any prophet from


Genesis to Malachi call those writings


old testament. The word old and new


testament was first used in history by


the translators. Meto of sadis and all


the rest of them were the very first


people to use the word old and new


testament for books. And they didn't use


it to mean old as it were obsolute but


they use it to mean old for the books. I


mean I didn't say there is nothing like


old and new covenant. We've taught that


over the years as well. But the use of


the word old testament by the


translators is to speak of the fact that


what is there is


enduring. It is the same. It's it is it


is enduring. It is lasting. So they


called it old testament. And the use of


the word new testament by those


translators remember none of the prophet


or the apostles called their book old or


new testament.


So the old covenant is the old agreement


with a with Moses on Mount Si that is


different from books. So when you have


this idea oh Genesis that's old


testament so we say no genesis old


testament Genesis is new testament but


exodus is old testament don't do that c


and nail with bible it makes bible


interpretation very difficult and people


like us who are given to bible


interpretation and who love theology


systematic theology or any form of


theology we frown at such handling of


the bible that's poor way of handling


the scriptures amen once you have this


idea oh genesis to something is wrong


with it. But Matthew to Revelation, they


say no. Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John,


that one is But from Acts, some people


say, "No, remove Acts." From Romans, are


you not lazy? It obviously shows you


haven't really read the Bible cover to


cover. Amen.


And if you have read the Bible cover to


cover, like people like us that have


read the Bible from children church that


can quote half the Bible, we know fully


well that everything you find in Romans


to Revelation, in fact, Revelation


quoted Isaiah, Revelation looked like he


was just copying Isaiah word for word.


If you have never read Isaiah before,


you will not understand Revelation


because Revelation is using all of


Isaiah's symbols are littered all over


Revelation.


None of the apostles taught anything


unique different from what the prophet


said. They simply interpreted what the


prophets wrote. Now in the light of the


death, burial and resurrection of Jesus


because the event of events have now


happened. The Messiah, the Christos has


done the work of reversing all that went


wrong in Eden. And now of reunion of


God's family has happened. The family in


heaven and earth is has come together.


God's kingdom can move forward. I mean


all of that is beautifully interpreted


by the apostles. Amen. So we mustn't


have this idea. Oh this is old, this is


new. So this morning for those who still


have such lazy mentality, I'm going to


show you some stories in the New


Testament books as we call them which


I've told you the New Testament is not


called uh the internal evidence of the


word of God. Nowhere is Matthew to


revelation called New Testament. Nowhere


is Genesis to Malachi called Old


Testament. However, the very first


translators are the ones who began to


use that phrase to quantify the two


portions of scriptures. Amen.


Hallelujah.


So the Hebrew text or the Greek text,


the Hebrew text which is Genesis to


Malachi, the Greek text which is Matthew


to revelation or you better use the word


scriptures, Genesis to Malachi and you


use the word uh that explains the


scriptures or the episodes or any of


such phrase to speak


of the Greek text. However, we cannot do


away with Genesis to Malachi because you


are lazy in your Bible study. Amen. No,


no, no. We will not. We cannot, we


should not, we must not. Amen. And when


you cannot interpret a text, don't dodge


and say that one is Old Testament. No,


scriptures can be


interpreted. Amen. And we interpret


scriptures with scriptures. And we


corroborate what those authors said. If


the author wrote another book, we


corroborated what he said alongside what


he said in other books to get a proper


idea of his line of thought.


Amen. So Romans chapter 15 that we read


it says the things that were written our


full time we were written for our


learning. So those stories we find in


the scriptures we can get doctrines from


them. And I remember when I taught you


on Ebeneza we read the first Samuel


story. Now that story is not a story to


the people in that timeline because it


has already happened. So that Samuel the


prophet and the editors which we call


the biblical writers when they will now


put it in the Bible it is not news to


the audience because they have already


heard that story before. So this why we


use that phrase that history has become


his story. History has become God's


story. So what the biblical writers will


do they will take a story that all of


them are used to and use that story to


tell God's story to tell God's plan and


purpose. So you are reading the story


but the story is already littered with


the teaching with the learning with the


knowledge you are supposed to have.


That's how biblical stories are written.


They they didn't write the story so that


story story. So I have now learned


another story. No the stories itself had


doctrine littered with it. It's like I


tell you a story when I'm preaching. I'm


not telling you a story for story sake.


I'm telling you a story to further


buttress my teaching. Thank you. That's


how the biblical writers wrote. So when


you see those stories don't think oh the


stories are just there for the same


thing with parables when you see Jesus


use parables he gave the meaning before


or the meaning after the parable we are


not left to be guessing what exactly are


they trying to say here that's how all


the stories are in the Bible so we say


oh David and Goliath that story is there


for learning every story in the Bible is


there for our learning so we can't say


oh this one does not concern us. No, it


concerns us. Amen. And much of the


supernatural has been removed because of


that kind of


thinking. Hebrews chapter


11. Hebrews 11 and verse one it says,


"Now faith is the substance of things


hoped for, the evidence of things not


seen. For by it, faith is the substance


of things hoped for, the evidence of


things not seen." So he calls faith


substance. He calls faith evidence of


things not seen. And you notice the


faith he's dealing with here is more


than faith to just have things because


he uses the word faith here to speak of


the whole persuasion in our worship of


God because you see Anoch by faith, Abel


by faith and that was not just about


having things. So he's dealing with the


broad use of the word faith which is say


I have faith in God in my worship of


God. Of course, there are other things


inside that faith. As a believer in God,


I can believe God for things and all of


that. But is in that broader scope


because the context before Hebrews


chapter 11, he had talked in chapter 10,


the just shall live by his faith. That's


more than just using faith is that we


are alive by by faith. We are people of


faith. Amen. Outside faith, we do not


exist. outside the faith of our Lord


Jesus Christ. We do not exist.


Nevertheless, I live yet I live. The


life I live in the flesh, I live by the


faith of the son of God who love me.


Galatians 2:20. So I live by faith. I'm


alive by faith. Four times that word is


quoted. The just shall live by faith. Is


how we are alive. How did Abraham become


a child of God? Abraham believed God and


it was accounting to him for


righteousness. So I'm a child of God by


faith. When I heard the gospel, faith


came into my heart. The faith of the


Lord Jesus. Peter said we have like


precious faith. Nobody has faith greater


than anybody in Christ Jesus. Because we


all have the faith of Jesus. Is that we


use it greater than other persons. Is


how we use it. For Jesus, he said you


have faith as small. So it's dealing


with usage because it's not about the


faith. And that was he had said have the


God kind of faith. Have what? The God


kind of faith. Hebrews 11:22 have faith


in God. The margin says have the God


kind of faith. Verse 23, you shall say


to this mountain. So the emphasis in


that faith is to use it. Hallelujah. The


emphasis in that faith is to what? To


use it. So faith in this context is


dealing


with our worship of God. How we become


God's sons, God's children, how God


designed man to live. Adam and Eve did


not respond by faith to God's


instruction. They didn't believe to eat


the promise of life. So faith is a broad


subject not just for things. That's


where you say there's faith for


salvation. There's faith as it were


character, faithfulness. There's faith.


Faith has a large umbrella. But the word


faith itself is dealing with our


persuasion concerning God and every


other thing is still part of that faith.


So he says faith is the substance of


things hoped for. the evidence of things


not sincere. Why did you have to leave


all those long story? Because if you


have ever read Hebrews chapter 11, you


saw that the whole faith there was not


about I get this, I get this. It had


even to their worship of God. By faith,


he refused to be


called the son of Pharaoh. That's not


faithful things now. So he's dealing


with the whole persuasion of our


worship. Amen. So it says for by it the


elders obtained a good report. Obtain a


good report is not obtain a report card.


Obtain a good report means they were


witnesses. So the elders, the


patriarchs, the men of God of old


preached about that faith, spoke about


that persuasion, spoke about that faith.


Then he says through faith we


understand that the words the words the


word words there is the word aon periods


of time. Through faith we understand


that the periods of time were framed put


together rendered fit together. that the


word frame there is a word used for


mending of net. The the the periods of


time were arranged together by the word


of God. So in every cycle of time in


every period of time there has been


God's word to different people in


different seasons and periods of time.


Every period of time from the beginning


of all things has been shaped by God's


word. whether people responded in faith


or they responded in unbelief or


disobedience. But every period of time


had been shaped by God's word. So it


says through faith we understand that


the words the periods of time were


framed rendered into use by the word of


God. So that the things are now this


where I'm going so that the things which


are seen were not made of things which


do appear. So the biblical writers in


their teaching about faith right from


the beginning wrote the seen and the


unseen word together. So they to explain


the unseen word they will use seen words


because how do you communicate to


physical to seen people something unseen


you have to use something physical


something they can see to explain it


that's how God's word comes to us the


faith of our Lord Jesus Christ in the


scripture remember Paul says the


scripture is able to make you wise unto


salvation through faith so the scripture


makes me know faith the faith that the


scripture makes me knowable about writes


the seen and the unseen world together.


So we said this the Bible has a


supernatural worldview context that if


you don't know that already you will run


into trouble seeing some persons in


their law for truth or doctrine. Try to


sideline the unseen or the supernatural.


That's already silly because they were


not writing science. The Bible is a


pre-science book. Stop trying to use the


Bible to defend science. No, the Bible


is a pre is not against science but is


pre-science is premoding. Allow ancient


men to be ancient. Don't bully them with


our today's use of words. You see if it


is God, God would have inspired them to


write in today's world. That means would


have also inspired all their audience to


also understand today's use of words.


That will mean that the first millennial


will be today's millennial. That's


foolish. Now that makes no sense. Allow


time to be time.


That means God has been messing up time


right from the beginning. There has been


no progression just so that you'll be


happy. So that they must sound like you.


They can't sound like you. Allow ancient


men to be ancient. And I've taught you


before and I've given you that context.


The very first world view of


humanity was supernatural.


It was very normal for people to be


walking along the road and had angels


bump into them and they would not think


it as wow I had an encounter. It was


expected. It is in that timeline that


the prophets Moses and the rest lived


where the unseen world and the seen word


there was no veil. It was there was no


distance in such in such mingling and


experience because


uh I would use even to some 14th century


uh in the 14th century great great great


great great great


great grandfathers you still see that


whole template or setup for those who


lived in the village. It's normal for


somebody say as I was fetching water in


the stream I saw somebody appear to me.


Nobody was going to say ah wow something


strange is happening in this village.


It's not


nor was going to see it as spooky. Now


imagine the first


error. So you must always understand


that their words have a supernatural


word is the same reason why we can't


interpret rib. So many theologians, uh,


so many pastors today put themselves


under trouble. God did not make the


woman


[Music]


from the head of a man. God made the


woman from the rib of a man. Every wife


is your missing


rib. And the challenge is Moses does not


even know what rib means because Moses


does not have that biology. He doesn't


even know what rib mean. And that word


rib which is why we care about Bible.


The word rib is the side of a building.


Moses does not think of rib and Adam


sleeping is not anastasia because


there's nothing like Anastasia in his


mind. You can't be inspired beyond the


knowledge you have. God cannot inspire


you in French. You don't know French.


Sir can't be inspiring you what you


don't know. So I've said it before. You


cannot prophesy or have a vision beyond


your knowledge or doctrinal persuasion.


So if you believe you are going to lose


means heaven rapture whatever you call


it you will always have visions of you


missing it. If you believe anybody who


plate head do this wear tr this go to


hell you will always be seen. It's not


because it's Bible is that you have


already you cannot see or have


revelation beyond the knowledge you


have. So when you began to learn the


truth of the gospel, you you stop having


those kind of


visions. Why? Because when we say I am


inspired, you will not become inspired


that today you become the most


intelligent person. No, you still have


to learn because it's God that created


us with brain. The natural and the


supernatural are not fighting. It is God


who made the natural. He has no problem


with the natural. It is when the natural


seeks to limit his sons or his children,


we go over and beyond it because we are


men of two worlds. We are men who


function in heaven and function on the


earth. And that's why you mustn't have


heaven as a planet where people go when


they die. You must have heaven. The


biblical heaven is experienced now on


the earth. Is not a barrier ground. So


you see voice from heaven, sound from


heaven, activities of heaven lit all


over the Bible. It was not when the


people died that they had those


experiences with heaven because heaven


in the Bible is one of the words used to


explain the unseen


world. Are you with me? Yes sir.


So learning something? Yes sir.


So the faith that they explain they they


use the sin to explain the unseen. So


the seen and the unseen word were


written together. Were written together.


Hallelujah.


So that word deep sleep is the same word


used for Abraham. Is the same word used


to explain a trance. Adam was the


prophet. He had a


vision


of the wife that the wife is not


inferior to him because she is bone of


his bone, flesh of his flesh. She is of


the same essence. That's what he was


having. That deep. We have explained


this before. I don't want to delve into


that in this study. Amen. All the use of


the words there are not


science but


supernatural or supernatural worldview.


Genesis 2:21. And the Lord God caused a


deep sleep. The word deep sleep there is


the Hebrew word tadema. It is used seven


times and you can't give it your own


meaning that he was snoring. No, that


word deep sleep. Look at it. Let's just


because uh some persons are thinking in


their mind right now that are new. What


exactly is this man of God saying? All


right. Job 4:13. You must be new in our


church. So we forgive you. Job 4:13. In


thought from the visions of the night


when deep sleep fallth on men, he he


called it when deep sleep fallth on men.


Okay. Job


4:13. Isaiah 29:10. For the Lord had


poured out upon you the spirit of deep


sleep and has closed your eyes the pro


fett and your rulers. The seers had it


covered. The spirit of deep sleep. The


word deep sleep.


deep


sleep. Genesis 15:12. And when the sun


was going down, a deep sleep fell upon


Abraham, and lo, and horror of great


darkness fell upon him, and he said unto


Abraham, "Know of a shorty." Is that a


vision Abraham is having because God is


interacting with him? Uhhuh. He was just


snoring there. Ah, he was in a vision.


So the word


tadma is gotten from a Hebrew word vadam


to be between words to be conscious


unconscious. So you are between words


you are unconscious. So it's like the


person is sleeping. So that's what


happened. God put the person where you


say uh am I conscious? Am I not


conscious? At that point is where the


man is having that vision. So he uses


that to explain he was in a deep sleep


because there is the normal Hebrew word


for sleep. Imagine if sleep is used


seven times in the Bible. Does that make


sense? Is that nobody ever


slept? You are


quiet. The word


sleep. Genesis 28. And put them for his


pillow and lay down in that place to


sleep. That's Jacob. He lay down to


sleep. That's the word. That word is


used 212 times. The word shakab to lie


down and


sleep. That's normal word for sleep.


Another word for


sleep in the same Genesis 28:69. Jacob


awake out of his sleep. The word sleep


there is the word


sha used 23 times for pure sleeping.


Hallelujah. So we mustn't give the word


our own meaning. So there are normal


words for


sleeping fast asleep.


Judges 16:14, the same


word. There's another word for sleep


that I'm looking for. I've seen it. U


Judges 16:1 19. She made him sleep upon


her knees. That's the word yashen


to cause to sleep. That's used 19 times


to cause to sleep. What J did.


And also what Delilah did to Samson


caused him to sleep upon her knees. So


there are words for sleep. So they now


used a word that


[Music]


means I am in a deep sleep. Not snoring


sleep but the sleep is of the deep. That


means the sleep is supernatural. The


sleep is um what's the word we will use


for it now? The sleep is a sleep of


depth. It's a sleep where you are


having experiences or encounters. I'll


put it that way. Amen. Because every of


the seven references of the word deep


sleep had that supernatural worldview


context. So you couldn't use it for is


just sleeping.


Oh. Amen.


Hallelujah.


Then the word ribb like for those like


again why we're doing this just for


those who are new amongst us that word


rib is the word salah t s e l a used 41


times in Genesis to Malachi and only in


in Genesis 2:21 and 22 is he used as rib


two out of 41 so 39 other references is


used for the side of a house and you


have it as biology is not even a


biological word because Moses the first


writer out of the scripture did not know


that biology because that biology not


even


exist did not even exist that he was


going to be thinking in that biology so


we must allow ancient men to be ancient


India of course we forgive you if you


got your wife from there no problem how


that's the flexibility of God's word


we're not going to kill you because you


you believe the wrong things because or


you taught the wrong things from God


because when it comes to miracles when


it comes to your prayers being heard God


is never going to answer your prayer


because your doctrine is correct God's


going to hear your prayer because he's a


good God. The reason for accurate


doctrine is accuracy in living and


practice. That's just it. It's not so


that God will answer our prayers or so


that we can move in power you. No, the


essence of doctrine is to straighten


your persuasion concern of faith so that


you have accuracy in your living because


ultimately if you don't have the if you


don't know sound doctrine the voice of


God you hear will ultimately we cannot


ultimately trust that voice of God


because when you hear that voice that


tells you


that one weird thing as we have heard


some people their holy spirit told them


said the lord told me that Jesus died


with under marine power influence. We


have people who Jesus is tell them


different thing. God is tell them


different thing because their doctrine


is obviously wrong. So they can hear all


manner of


things. So they when they see water


their mind is marine power. Not knowing


that the ancient men use water for


something. There's what those words


mean. That's why I told you you must be


vast in the supernatural world view


context of the Bible because that first


era was a supernatural world view. Now


the world view that we are living in


today is scientific in fact is even


progressing so much in the scientific


that is more is tilting towards in the


next 50 years if we're not careful


careful it will be more AI.


that our great grandchildren will not


even understand some expressions that we


use. Thank you. And you you you want the


ancient men to think like you. No. Now


you So we said biblical interpretation


is you will sit where they sat to hear


what they heard. Then you cross over to


our world today and find the exact words


that say the same thing because no


biblical writer wrote to you. You were


not their audience. But what was written


is for you. Just like I'm preaching


right now, I'm preaching to you. But


people will hear this message. People


are hearing this message in different


parts of the world right now. Of course,


we are live


online. However, I am not preaching to


them. I'm preaching to you because you


are my direct audience. You determine


the examples I'm using because I want


you to understand. So it is written for


them. It is for them but is directly to


you. Amen. Amen. So Abraham did not know


you nor he didn't know your father that


he could have been talking to you and


your father was talking to his


audience. So you must always sit where


they sat to hear what they heard. That


way it makes biblical interpretation


easy and


simple. Hallelujah.


So there is a supernatural world


view that we cannot ignore, remove from


the scriptures.


So let's read one Acts chapter


8. Acts chapter 8. Acts chapter


8. Philip has gone to Samaria to


preach.


Acts 8 and verse 5. Then Philip went


down to the city of Samaria and preached


Christ unto them. And the people with


one accord gave heed unto those things


which Philip spake, hearing and seeing


the miracles which he did. You must be a


proof producer. Amen.


hearing and seeing the miracles which he


did. For unclean spirits, crying with


loud voice came out of many that were


possessed with them. And many that were


taken with palsies, and they were lame


were healed, and there was great joy in


that city. Hallelujah.


Verse N. Now pay


attention. And there was a certain man


called who? Simon, which before time in


the same city used what?


and bewitched the people of Samaria,


giving out that himself was some great


power. So how did he get them? You see


how this word is used four times in this


context. What he did there? How he got


them to give him sway? Everybody listen


to him. How he got everybody to subject


themsel under his voice, under his


leadership.


He used


sorcery and bewitched the people. At


least this is book of acts for those who


want to say Matthew, Mark, Luke and John


is not new testament. At least ask your


new


testament. You know people are very


amazing how they select part of the


bible said no now that jesus have come.


There's nothing like that. You have to


be really naive or


crafty. We must never use redemption to


ignore people's problem. I've taught you


that over the years because it's very


amazing how some say no there's nothing


like that. What do you mean there's


something like that? No, we have


authority over it. Does not mean there's


nothing like that. Baba lives are being


destroyed. Oh, Satan is doing things.


Oh, but doesn't make him to be feared.


He's still an underfoot reality. It's


still something we cast out, we drive


out, we deal with. Our authority is over


the devils. We have authority in heaven,


on the earth, and under the earth. Amen.


But to say that there's I think last


year there was a a pastor they were


having this major conference in Lagos


and they invited a dearly beloved word


of faith preacher too and I had an


interaction with uh one of the pastors


who were speaking in that conference and


were having a conversation who was


speaking in that same conference and I


said to


him that


um if we continue with all this our


Jesus plus


kind of teachings which is good which is


what we are all for because Jesus is


sufficient and is enough and we know


that and that's the truth when we begin


to now we use that to say things like


there's nobody's life being destroyed


Satan is not doing anything we are not


being fair then I gave him some example


because he listens to me because of


doctrinal accuracy that I have not so


and he knows that I have power too so


that's why it's good this life


everything you do all right so you can't


say I don't know because Bible I


power. So I mean my words were not going


to fall. My words could stand. So I told


him I said Jesus who we teach saw a


woman and said u not this woman who


Satan has bound this 18 years. What do


you say about


that? He said um that's true of course.


I said okay. Ought not this woman who


Satan has bound this 18 years. So Jesus


did not deny that it was Satan that had


put her in that condition. Neither was


he saying wow Satan has bound we are


finished. So what are we going to do?


No, it's just Jesus never in fact then I


said to him I said do you know that


Jesus in the four gospel the right


things about Jesus has more use of the


word devil than any other portion of the


whole Bible. He said ah yes so yeah I I


said because you cannot be supernatural


and not confront the powers of darkness.


All those things now cover up when you


did lazy. All we do in this church, we


all teach the undiluted word. Papa


people are having problem. If you just


lift up your eye, you can just see that


that thing is not cancel is one spirit


of infir latch on on that woman that


want to kill her there and you are there


saying just stay on the word. Stay on


the word. That word that we are staying


on healed people of all manner of


infirmity. And many of those infirmity


that heal people of were caused by


devils.


That's being real. That's been say I


thought pastor go was a new covenant


preacher. How come I'm hearing people?


How come he's saying I command you get


out? That what is he doing? We don't do


that


here. Wow. That means you've never been


in a service of the biblical apostles.


You've never been in a service like


that. Did Paul the Apostle know Satan


can It says be sober, be vigilant. The


same thing James and Peter said, be


sober vigilant because the adversary the


devil as a ringing lion seeking who may


devour. That's postreservation


scripture.


He's not say Jesus has been raised from


the dead. So Satan does not seek to


devour people anymore. Uh-uh. Did Satan


get


saved? People are amazing. Satan did not


get saved. It is us who have the memo,


who say, "Hey, you can't pass here now.


Don't you know that blood had been


shed?" We are the ones who engage the


realities of what Jesus have done and


say ah. And that's why you use power


aggressively. Use


powerfully. Use authority


authoritatively. Say, "Hey, the land is


your own." But if people are trying to


drag the land with you, you bring all


the police money mix everybody join to


say don't touch this land again. But


it's your land. It doesn't stop trying


to drag it with you. That's how Satan is


right say Satan is not alive and well.


He was he's not thinking well because if


he was he won't come against us. It's


not that's why we many times must remind


him say ah you don't do pass yourself.


Oh you can't pass here.


Even God in scriptures with the prophet


said by a strong hand I will let them.


We have some issues that if we just take


it normally. No no no this time you


strong hand. You strong hand. You


serious


face. The same thing Jesus dealt with


that woman. That man the mad man of


gather the most possessed person in the


Bible. And when he said we are many


Jesus now use one word o u t out.


Because me cannot be dragging now. He


said we out. didn't say I beg you I I


plead I no no no no it doesn't matter


how many still one word out


you know you are full of authority when


you reduce your prayers to be very short


in the words of John in the prayers of


mother short


prayer let all their eyes be open and


pom pom pom all the eyes just just you


reduce the


vocabulary because you're an


announcement you are making so Jesus


must check all his use of power. No long


even for Lazarus that is the Lazarus


comfort never Jesus never use in any


miracle more than 10


words never use more than 10 words


that's power


amen oh


so now we dissociate oursel from all


these say let's prophesy you are quoting


Bible verse for me you see the Lord


would have you know that you are the


head and Not the tails. You see the


light shining in you. Baba, prophesy.


Prophesy. Don't do that thing with me.


Don't do that thing with me.


Oh, where is the bread of the spirit


that we know that this prophecy you did


not manipulate it by? As much as we know


there's nothing wrong with your prophecy


having scriptures inside. But this one


just like you read Bible for me.


Now there must be a place and that's


where we distate oursel from all those


people say now don't catch


you see something say we cannot we


cannot get accurate detail by prophecy


aha we don't catch you the sweet


straight is old testament


obviously because people don't want to


press on for supernatural depth to


operate more in all that is available to


us in Christ Jesus and we reject it we


refuse it. We refuse to be part of that


band of Christianity. Yes, sir.


We refuse to be part of that band of


Christianity.


Amen. Amen.


We refuse to be part of that band of


Christianity.


No, that weak, cowardly Christianity


will have Christianity crawling on his


knees. We have Christianity fading away.


And that's not the Christianity that the


apostle delivered onto us. Amen.


Acts chapter


8 verse 9. And there was a certain man.


So you get my story. So I told her that


we don't ignore people's problem. There


are people that are having issues that


is devil. Even me from watching the


program live, I can see people that are


that devil. I had that does not stop


life video from working. As I'm watching


the video live, I can see it. Sometimes


we are watching a live video and the man


of God is moving in power. Me and my


wife I tell what the man of God is about


to do. The real is not fake. Maybe only


you the holy spirit all of us get we can


tell that you are not because we can see


what you are going as he's speaking in


tong like I can I say it's going to mean


to those people there. That's why it's


shifting like that and he's expecting


their desire if they just have we give


them you can see the motions the motions


of the spirit are there. Don't be making


it look like all these things are we


just as we as we do 40 days teaching the


word of God God is solving your problem


is that thing I'm trying to avoid and


remove from your


mind God's word is solving your problem


does not mean that we cannot say in the


name of Jesus go


we do not bring down or reduce the place


of teaching but when we are always


afraid of power encounters with


situation it is a laziness iness that


comes from not praying, not wanting to


learn how to use the power of God and is


very common with some people who say


they are whatsoever cryptocurrency I be


crytocentric and don't join them


oh told you don't join them it's


laziness it's laziness and you can just


see a track


flow we are Bible preachers we preach


the Bible we leave the Bible we read the


Bible and not drain any camp um for the


word of God and every Christian should


be. Acts


8 it says he used


sorcery and bewitched the


people of Samaria giving out that


himself was some great one to whom they


all gave heed. Notice that verse 10 to


whom they all gave heed. That's the word


procco. to whom they all gave heed. They


all gave heed to him. He will use that


same word again because that for a long


time he had bewitched them with sorcery.


So they gave heed. Underline that word


gave heed. He will use it again in verse


11. And to him they had regard. That's


the word they had regard. So they gave


heed. They had regard to him. So they


followed his lead on


issues. And it was not clear. Ah baba


have jed them.


I don't want all you tell me. Uh, I have


authority over all devils. I have


authority over all devil. It doesn't


affect me. What about your boss at


work? What


about your governor? Can J not work on


him? What about your local


government? If it not work on you, it


will work on your boss. Now, it must


work on somebody else. Does it not work


on somebody? You all looking at me


surprised


because we we we don't realize that


people other people's actions can have


effect on us


too not work not catch not catch catch


your


neighbor say the way my neighbor is just


acting with me he catch him the


catch that's why you cannot because


that's what I want to show you today


that's why you cannot afford to not know


how to engage forces oh because people


that you are doing is just marketplace


people they are not doing with clear eye


they have had powers to their own s


people that put things in their tongue


just to because they want to pitch their


business there people that have done all


manner of things you say it's not that


it's not it's not that it's time and


chance happened to them


all see how many times they all gave


heed it started in verse


giving out that himself was some great


power. So he be the people of Sam giving


out that himself was some great power.


So he put himself as an authority that


they all listened


to whom they all gave


heed. Verse 11. And to him they had


regard. And when they believe Philip


preaching the things concerning the


kingdom of God and the name of Jesus


Christ, they were all


baptized. Go to


18. And when Simon saw that through


laying on of the apostles hand the Holy


Ghost was given, he offered them money,


saying, "Give me also this power, that


whomsoever I lay my hands may receive


the Holy Ghost." And Peter said unto


him, "Thy morning perish with thee,


because thou hast thought that the gift


of God may be portrayed with money. Thou


has neither part nor lot in this matter,


for thy heart is not right in the sight


of God. Repent thereof of this thy


wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the


result of thy heart may be forgiven. For


I perceive that thou art in the God of


bitterness, and in the bond


of amen.


So something happened. So Philillip was


there. But when


uh Peter came to town, Peter could


detect that this guy there's something I


think it looking like he's a false


convert. Is he a recat or a force


convert? Because you know Philip was


shoving rice and tomatoes in his


work before persecution pursued him. But


Philip had more exercise of pneumatic of


the things of the spirit. He had more


exercise of the things of the spirit.


Could tell that this guy not pure


finish. Is salvation never


complete? He still have beef that we


have removed him from the great power.


He said the bitterness of your heart


because you want to now use power to


this new power now. You want to also use


it to put the people under


bondage because it's not really because


uh he had such great desire for the


power of God. Look at the sign of spirit


is always pure.


Amen. Now Peter could have just


corrected him and say not be money to


buy this thing now hunger desire it with


your heart you will get it could have


easily just taught him but this was more


than a teaching


issue. So by of spirit he exposed the


man but notice what the man


did. They gave heed to him. He bewitched


the whole city that they gave he to him.


They regarded him.


They all gave he to


him. They all gave he to


him. They regarded him. So it was not


normal.


It was not normal. See another example


again.


Paul, Acts


13. Flip, flip, flip. Acts chapter


13.


Acts chapter


13 and verse 6. And when they had gone


through the aisles unto part force, they


found a certain sorcerer, a false


prophet, a Jew, whose name was Bad


Jesus, which was with the deputy of the


country. It was with the


politician. So the politician, somebody


was


All right. Said Paulos, a prudent


man who called for Barnabas and Saul and


desired, he really desired. He really


wanted to allow your contract to


work. He desired to hear the word of


God. But Elim the sorcerer, for so is


his name by interpolation, withtood


them, seeking to turn away the deputy


from the faith. How did he withstand


them? He did not allow Sus Paul to pay


attention to what they were


saying. Was jazzing the man not to hear.


So um just wait a minute. Just wait a


minute. I don't think I want to hear


this message again. Just come next week.


Come


tomorrow. Then Saul who also is called


Paul filled with the Holy Ghost set his


eyes on him. That's it. and said, "Oh,


full of all substitute and all mischief,


thou child of the devil, thou enemy of


all righteousness, we are the new


covenant. I believe


you. We are the new covenant." That's


what he said there. I'm a new covenant


preacher. We don't have anything to do


with the


devil. And now, behold, the hand of the


Lord is upon thee. Thou shalt be blind,


not seen the sun for a season. And


immediately and immediately death fell


on him, a mist and darkness, and he went


about seeking some to lead him by the


hand. Then one to go, let's read 13.


Let's read uh verse 12.


Then the deputy when he saw what was


done believing at the doctrine of


the I I'll get back to you tomorrow. 5


months have


passed. You're not seeing things like


that. I'll get back to you. Eight days


have


passed. Two weeks ago, Wednesday, before


we traveled for our Sabba meeting, I was


reading the story of Esther for you.


What was done unto that man? Nothing.


The king


say that


is it not because hey man that has been


doing his stargazing work have have


jazzed the king even collect signate


ring to be stamping the king is stamping


decrees that the king did not


read nobody can tell me that nobody can


tell me that people can tell you sir


he not catch you he go catch somebody


around


you. So there's no enchantment against


me. What about your father? What about


your mother? There are some behaviors.


I'm not trying to scare you. That's not


the idea. I'm trying to let you know


that you can't afford to not be


deliberate with the power of God.


You can't afford to not be deliberate


with the power of God. You can't


afford. Amen. Because that selfish way


of living where you are always saying it


not affect me now. H it does not concern


me. Now what about the other


persons? 12 spies went to spy the land.


10 came back with negative news. Two


came back with good


news. Those two was all the whole city


trembling by what the 10 people said.


They were all afraid and they were all


in fact that's what prolonged the their


wilderness journey. They said we cannot


go. We cannot go. We cannot go. We


cannot go. God was so displeased with


them and said they will all die in the


wilderness. They will not enter the


promised land. All of that whole


generation will all die in wilderness


and you say it does not affect other it


was just a matter of no is not it's just


normal. But those two Joshua and Caleb


said let us go up at once to possess the


land. They still did not go


because what those 10 persons sp said


said had overshadowed everything


and Israel


stayed. But what did God say about Caleb


and


Joshua? Let's read it. Go to


numbers. Numbers


14. Go to Numbers 14.


Because all those men which have seen my


glory and my miracles which I did in


Egypt, verse 22, and in the wilderness,


and have tempted me now these 10 times,


and have not hearkened to my voice,


surely they shall not see the land which


I swore unto their father, neither shall


any of them that provoke me see it.


But my servant Caleb, because he had


another


another spirit with him, and had


followed me fully, him will I bring to


the land where until he went, and his


seed shall possess


it. Because he had what?


Another spirit.


because he had


another he had another


spirit. So there was a spirit at work in


those other


people. God has not given us a spirit of


fear but of law power and of a sound


mind. There's a spirit at work. Yes sir.


There are some things some people say we


can tell that this is not I was talking


to a brother recently. I said see now


this is fear now. Now now we are


reacting to something that we should


have taken the lead cuz you see some


things you think is just a matter of


it's just the way I see it. A as for me


as a as a as a young lady I realized


that it doesn't really matter how I give


birth. He just baby come out after you


die on the theater


or doesn't really matter the same way


people say doesn't matter how you die


just leave doesn't matter how you die


now ve cut your head cut your arm cut


your leg couldn't even say any part to


bury doesn't matter just to leave why


will you have to always be believing


weird things can't you always take side


with the power of god I don't want to


stress myself there are people that did


not stress himself that died


there are also people that they say 10%


success rate like one recently I was


praying


for one of our members brother's child


they say 10% success rate for the


surgery but the surgery succeeded now


even the doctors do not have faith that


it will work that's there are more


things than all those things so the one


that they say 80% success rate people


still die put


my life I the way I like to see things


for me the perspective All those things


that you are thinking is perspective.


The way I see it, the way I is


spiritual.


You thought it was just the is giant.


Now they has bread for is a matter of


perspective. But God have brought spirit


inside. So it was not normal


eye. Those sons of anarch that they


saw there's no more jazz people than


those sons of anarch. So as they saw I


said it catch them. The enchantment


catch them.


Big. Yeah, those are spirit of demons.


Now those nephilims giant breeds that


they saw the sons of Anna. That is the


whole origin of where we talk about some


other


things. They not feel go they say their


cities are welled up. We were in their


sight. Let's let's read it. Some people


you know I will just be quoting all


these things trusting people know Bible.


Some people their first time of of


hearing some of these


references. Numbers


13. Numbers 13:25. And they returned


from searching of the land after 40


days. And they went and came to Moses


and to Aon and all the congression of


the children of


Israel. Remember we read the next


chapter, chapter 14. Okay? And they went


and came to Moses and Aon and all the


congression of the children of Israel.


All the congression be careful who is


addressing everybody in your house.


What? Before they fill everybody with


fear. This is how things work. Nobody


ever rise. Can anything good come out


from this family?


We don't talk like that. Yeah.


We don't talk like that. Yeah. We don't


think like that here. Say it's just how


we think. That thinking is not normal.


That's what I That thinking that you


thought it was thinking is it not the


same way say I don't think my wife my


life is worth living. Just hang


yourself. Is that one still thinking or


a spirit? A spirit that is influencing


them. Now we saw the other the last sun


last uh two weeks ago


Sunday that when I unleashed the power


of God like that


in the air the power of God was


suffocating people that are hearing


strange voices. Are they not normal


believers?


Voices that telling you cannot amount to


much. The power of God catch them. Power


of God located or pick them out. There


are people that you see. It's just the


way I was thinking. How was it the way


they were thinking? Now, but we saw


spirit now. Yes sir. That's why you need


I s when you are hearing somebody talk


and the person is saying


um for me I I I'm for me


um


um I don't think I even see a man and if


I see a man I may never have a


child. It's my lot. I really messed up


because I lived a useless life all my


life. It's my lot. It's okay. Then they


marry after like they are 45. God of


Shilo came true because a different god.


It had to be that one. 45 they finally


got it. Now 50 can't have a child. It's


my lot. It has come to pass. Then the


spirit that is tormenting our life there


is just man say ah we got this one. We


got this one. We got this one. Oh, we


got this one. We got her real


good. She say when I get to I ask God


say what did I go through questions all


these people asking me everybody wants


to ask me question that Bible has


already


answered you will eat of the fruit of


your


words where the tree lith there it shall


remain. Now you talk I say Congo


stay is what you said is what you


predominantly believed.


Do not say to the angel I was joking.


Oh they're not a joke which like


that. Oh Reverend she shared with us a


story of a lady that the lady had so


back seat. She was a fellowship leader


and he was talking to her and she didn't


know he was talking to her by the spirit


and said to her that you attended this


school and the lady said yes. She say


she said he said many things that the


lady thought oh you were in the same


school say sister I'm talking to you now


oh you in the spirit that's how


bastarded she has bassed and he kept


talking to her and he said you were with


your friends and you said me I can't


marry a Christian a man of God though


because all these Christian brothers are


not meeting us it's all anybody I can


marry anybody now you have married


alli it was what


She every other person and the Lord said


every other person could have been


thinking like that but you were mature.


You were not ignorant. You had handled


the word of God. You had taught other


people God's word. You couldn't have


been joking. You couldn't have been


joking saying all those things that uh


me I don't have time for those kind of


people. I don't have now you are angry


that all the people that coming to meet


you are all the people that you said


will come and meet


you couldn't have been


joking do not say to the angel is a


sleep of tongue it don't go carry out to


pass say sorry it not a slip of tongue


now what you


believe I'm trying to show you not a


slip of


tongue number


And they told him and said, uh, where


are we again? There's, uh, they return


from searching the


land. Okay. 26. And they went and came


to Moses, to Aaron, and to all the


congregation of the children of Israel,


unto the wilderness of Paradesh, and


brought back word unto them, and unto


all the congregation, and showed them


the fruit of the land. And they told him


and said, we came into the land whether


thou sentest us, and surely it flowth


with what?


This is the fruits of it. Nevertheless,


the people be strong that dwell in the


land. Nevertheless, the people


that Nevertheless, the people be strong


that dwell in the land. And the cities


are what?


And every and


very moreover we saw the children of


who? 29 went to go.


You see perfect excuse that means on


every corner we are finished.


What happened next? Verse 31 to go.


But the men that


And they brought up an


So how did they know how the people also


saw


them? Ex evil report. Evil report.


H the way my life is going right


now you not


laugh all the triggers of power you will


use it to say evil you first you say


when we laugh and speak by faith you


laugh if I for this


situation you are sealing


it you shake it


together. And then they come out


to see Caleb steal the people say hey


everybody no no no let us go up at once


they overshadowed him


back


majority majority this is the reason why


you must be careful with community


project the pastors know when we are


believing god for something many times I


don't have I don't allow anybody follow


me to pray those pray together I come


sing a corporate anointing somebody else


come and stamp out I know as much As I


have faith, I believe the best of people


you know they reach like that too. There


are some things I want to pray for not


join me. I beg so that not as we are


praying here another person inside it's


like are you sure this can happen? Are


you sure God? Ah ah I beg let me just


maintain the result cuz I can maintain


the result from the beginning to the


end. Say we as a people we all came


together and the Bible call it evil


report. Evil report. Evil report. We


don't do that here.


Evil report.


So it was not clear eye.


It was not clear eye.


It was not clear eye. Oh.


Hallelujah.


Ecclesiastes 5:6. Let me give you the


text. I quoted


it. Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy


flesh to sin. Neither say thou before


the angel that it was an error.


Wherefore should God be angry at thy


voice and destroy the work of thy


hand? That's


it. It was an error. It was an error. I


did not mean it. I did not mean it. I


did not mean


it. It was an error. It was an


error. It's not an error. Oh, you meant


it.


Oh, Job did not have time to say it was


an error. What he feared must have come


upon him


already. And there was a lot of


supernatural worldview context there.


But at least for the surface one, why


was he talking like that? because he


can't say it to a matter of ignorance


because he is of greater stature to know


better.


Isaiah


54. Isaiah 54 and verse14. We read


14-17. Isaiah


54:14-17. In righteousness shalt thou be


established. Thou shalt be far from


what? Thou shalt not fear and from


terror, for he shall not come n.


Behold, they shall surely


but not by. Whosoever shall gather


together against thee shall


behold I have created the smith that


bloweth the co in the fire and that


bringeth forth an instrument for his


work. I have created the wister to


destroy no weapon


and every tongue that shall rise against


thee in


just make sure that tongue rising


against you judgment is all your own.


No tongue and every tongue that rise


against me in judgment, thou shalt


condemn. You must condemn


it. This is the heritage of the servant


of the Lord. And their righteousness is


of me. This is the heritage. This is our


inheritance.


Amen. No weapon fashioned against me


shall prosper. Oh, I love the story. A


great man of God shared that they put a


they put a gun on his side and said


chill. Yeah.


Receive take that thing away. It will


not work. It's


toy. The person said ah it seem like you


don't


know. And he engaged the person and said


you are not even afraid me that I can


kill you. That thing is toy. It will not


work again since you have put it to


touch my body. And he said he said this


thing I have been killing. I've killed


many persons. So he said that thing has


become toy. So the man cracked the


gun shut up. Nothing came out. Nothing


worked. Nothing. It didn't


work. He said I will shoot you. He say


you can shoot me. Nothing will come out


his toy. That thing will not work.


Pointed at him. Nothing


work. He said neither. You know


neither said neither made him renounce


and confess all his sins. And he was


standing with some pastors as he turned


back to say let us now go to the police


station. All the pastors that were with


him had ran for their life because it's


per head. It's not we we we we must know


these things for yourself.


must know this because if I mention my


own you will say


afterward after after you're always


looking for excuse to die lazy. Stop


looking for excuse to not be


supernatural. Yes sir. That's why me and


me other men of God story now.


Amen.


Stop looking for when this thing enter


your


spirit.


Hi. Oh beautiful. Ah, this Saturday on


Friday, ah, I went uh along the Lagos


bin Express more tours like you're going


to Lagos. So, there was a a property I


was going to see 200 by 300, some other


things and


uh some huge amount of money. As we


entered, of course, I'm not interested


in the property anymore. But as we


entered, the security man said to the


person who went to show me the place


that I saw scorpion. Scorpion beat me.


Oh, and all of that. He said, "Ah, you'd


have kept the scorpion for me." I said,


"I hope you are okay." He said, "Ah,


there's something the man said that


things scatter my head on Friday." He


said, "The scorpion that that beat me,


it will surely die now." He say, "You


know, I'm a fool man." The man said,


"Yeah, it's true. When scorpion and


snakes beat people, they always die.


They cannot harm you people." I said,


"Hey, I say it like normal." I know last


as he said that when we're now passing


the the bush, he say be careful about


scorpions. I say, "Ah, this one are


normal something." Even if there was


Scorpio, I I


know ah I know. I said, "No, no, no.


Those things are uh those are lesser


things that that man was talking about


just now. Quickly


quickly for my front they just make


something that has power look like and


what was the excuse say I'm a fool and


man that means they don't cook and come


that all those things based on is a full


man go walk based on say they arrange


them.


Hey,


then you see the child of God say, "Hey,


you know, you're a child of Zion. Ah,


you're a child of God."


Beware of powerlessness.


And look at how normal it was in his


communication. And he was smiling and


saying, "He beat me up, but I that one


not go walk." And he said, "The scorpion


must die because as long as he had beat


me, we must die." Hey, he said and even


if it was a snake, it must die. Said


because I'm a


full a child of God, I not sure if God


can come true for


me. This sign shall follow them that


believe


in my


name shall cast out devil. You always


start with the easy one. Shall cast if


they drink any deadly thing.


You know, I'm reminded of that serpent


that beat Paul that we do where people


now turn into song sh into the fire. A


song for Paul. Paul did not even pray.


They were waiting he will swell and die.


He shook it into the fire. They were


waiting he will soon swear and die. He


did not swear and die. He got the whole


city saved.


Oh man, break. What kind of presenting


are we having now that we are because of


all those lazy interpretation of


scriptures? No, I believe in the


supernatural.


I choose to be supernatural.


I shared with you that story of that man


that say ah wabana wabana to death to


all those people that made his wife need


inside water. All of them with their


many guns drop on you say what is that


one? What is that one? What kind of


story all the made so s we have more


terrible ones than that one?


What about those people that tell told


the the reverend Dr. M that this crusade


will not hold. Rain will fall. He say


all of you rain will


fall and the wind will blow your roof


and blow it to the next village and rain


will only fall in your houses. After


they say um you are wicked said no


people said the will not hold. I think


the rain fell in your houses. How does


wind really blow the roof and blow it to


another village? Say kind of thing. I


don't believe it. I don't believe it.


You die by correction.


Better be believing it.


The days are evil.


The days are evil. Day onto day on tire


speech. Things are being said in dark


places. Oh, the habitation of the world


are full of


cruelty. Deliver the prisoners out of


the pit.


Hey Golth, you have been fighting from


your youth. Golth is skillful enough.


Why does he have to still cause David


the name of his god? Baba, if it is what


fight, you can kill David. David had not


even handled those weapons before. But


Golth for him that you say is he's a


very skillful professional. He doesn't


know anything all those ways be is it


for


joke I'm


there I'm not trying to scare you


but if you run with footmen and they


wear you baba what will you do when you


run with


chariot never see any conf any conflict


just small just like that pastor that


died and the n came out and raised his


hand and said it's mistake I just Let me


just test the power. I didn't know it


will kill


him. M say people don't believe that


kind of story because


man I believe I used to believe kind of


I believe every type of


supernatural so let me test it say let


me test this power test it on the pastor


pastor just slumber


die cuz he's a coward there are many of


such cowards that hold the mic too that


have ideas of the power of God that is


not the power of


Go. No weapon fashioned against me shall


prosper.


No


fear in the face of seeming difficulty.


Look at Elijah. Look at Elisha. Look at


how they look beyond the


ordinary. Jesus said, "I am he." And the


Bible say, "And they fell."


That showed you that if it was about if


Jesus can escape and live there, he


could have.


No man take my life. See that scripture


became real to me. No man take my life.


That's the way of sons. No man take my


life. I lay down until and papay taught


us that he called writing your own


ticket with God. Only until I'm


satisfied with days. My life is not on


the street. It's not on the air. It's


not on the water. It's


not it's not in any bullet or cut glass


or knife. My life is in the hand of God.


When I am satisfied with my days, I will


draw my leg into my bed having blessed


my children children. That's how to


think.


He has made the divine mad. He has


frustrated the tokens of life. Said


there's an old testament quote that one.


Hey, not sabi talk. have seen Christians


piss on themselves because in his


daughter was in the oh I remember the


days where she used to enter Boss I


don't know what is happening with this


gen these people this I don't I don't


like using word this generation the


people these


days a man dress in so people were


trying to come out on the bus I said do


you want to enter this bus but you not


be comfortable he said no no no driver


you can drive I just tell you now you


not be comfortable all the things you


use will not work


again. Oh, that story in Asaba is still


fresh in my memory. Pastor man shared it


reminded me again. A man came to be born


again. He he had a ring in his hand for


magic. I got him born again. As I lay


down on him to be filled with the spirit


of God, the ring in his hand


disappear. Me. So all of us are mad like


you. No, we are not mad. It's you that


is mad, sir. We cannot know. We should


know what we saw. We should know what


happened.


magic ring disappeared because that was


what Baba was using for power and what


he has been believing, bribing, using


natural means to get, I had not been


able to get as he got born again filled


with the spirit of God. What he had


bried and lobbyed for for years that not


work now work he got the promotion


hand to to show him and I said to him I


said God have shown you that all those


things are nonsense.


Say so how will not be safe? I said that


power is enough to keep you safe. So now


they use for my now they use for my


security


work now for my security work. I look at


again the way was saying it looks so


normal and it look like a normal person


know but get one thing for


hand. My God is in


me. Everywhere I'm going I'm going with


him.


[Applause]


Oh I'm going with him. Oh I'm going with


him.


Know ye not that you are the temple of


God, the shrine of God, the temple of


God, that the spirit of God dwells in


you. Know ye not the spirit of God


dwells in me. I'm a house of God, a


temple of God.


Hallelujah.


Why not ordinary


man?


Glory. Amen.


Woo!


Glory.


[Applause]


Hallelujah. Praise God. The greater one


lives inside of me.


The greater one lives inside of me. For


greater is he that is in me than he that


is in the word.


Child of God, do you know who you are?


Sometimes when I'm engaging with people


and they try to tell me that I said that


one nothing now I telling one of I said


he said they use cutlas he said if not


that they were able to bust his head the


jazz would not the cut and everything


that would not have entered but the fact


that they were able to small blood came


out that's because they were shooting


him I said ah that one a small one


now you must have it and I straight to


him I said let me test it with you now


you'll see he said no Oh no no


no because he knew all his fortification


is nothing before


and it was just normal talk we were


talking but he knew he said ah baba I


know you now it's not you that told me


that day that rain will not fall that


whole weekend not fall weather change


everything dark I told people that my my


go in fact we do bet they did bet I


didn't even know it was after say I


cashed


out I said I've seen You I told you that


they may kidnap people there. I saw you


enter the same place. I said you are not


just


afraid. There is a way to live. There is


a way to think. There is a way to talk.


Life is by power.


And we have it in Christ Jesus.


I refuse to live ordinarily.


Say I'm a fool man.


Hey,


I'm a child of God. Oh,


I'm a child of God. Oh, a child of God.


Let it enter you. I'm a child of God.


I'm a child of God. God is on my inside.


God is on my inside. Power is on my


inside.


I'm unstoppable.


Glory.


Amen.


I remember of the days where in a like


that come come towards me. I say


sleep. I say that's how that's how we


survive because when I was in school I


just tapped and the person fall the


ground just like


that what I carry is


terrible if we don't wake him up he will


stay till tomorrow he will keep staying


till next week just like that


and his child of God a fellow believer


imagine now have J it will go over and


beyond


Cooper


Balu target


try to help him up and see if you can.


We have power.


You they use your own.


You they use your own


see you see something is


oh you see what happened to them. Sit


sit sit sit sit sit sit sit sit sit. See


people that trying to help somebody see


power of God have put all of


them is talk let's use you as example


now you may not wake


up there are more ancient


ways there are more ancient ways


oh what knocked you people down Brother


David, what happened? You were trying to


help him.


It's like it was, you see, as they try


to drag somebody up, should he


not? We are greater than divers and


enchanters.


Where is your blow breeze?


We are great.


Balac said Balam climb up this mountain


and cause. Why is Balac can't you just


go and fight war? Go and fight the


Israelite now. Do you have to use balam


to c them first before you fight? Is it


not just to fight? Stop thinking life is


not by power.


Barak said I


cannot say you are you do this one say


let me go up at say no you will follow


us to the battle say for if you follow


us then we are sure we will


win. When Deborah followed Barack notice


the story say and the stars fought for


us. West has come the


first he has engaged powers.


You come against me, you come against


all the forces that work with me.


You are having sleepless night because


of co 13 witches making you have


sleepless night. What about your inable


company of angels? You for my hand. You


for my


hand. Sometimes I I I when I see court


boys, when I see rugged people, I just


want I just shake their hands and they


just begin to stagger back. I grab them


back. I just would like to do all those


things just to show them that is by my


by my mercies that you are alive.


My great compassion faileth not for


you. You not be thinking we are all we


all the same. Especally when I when all


those bragging


A body builder threatening people just


one finger on his shoulder he crumbled


as a pack on the ground. There are more


powerful power than building muscles.


Samson's power was not his muzzle.


If not they will not be asking what's


the secret of his power.


Don't be asking what the secret of his


power. If the secret of his power was


his muzzle is blind is all Philistines


blind. They are not blind and they


should know of his power is his muzzle


but his power is not his muzzle. Yes


sir.


We have


power great power.


So he's just going to sleep like that


tomorrow. You know the I didn't even


prepare him or to know what I was going


to do to him.


He wave him like like like force because


he's a force. Let me help the man of


God.


Wake. Help him up. Help him up,


doctor. He could let him tell us what


happened to him. At least he didn't know


what was going to happen to him. I took


him by


surprise. Look at how normal people


believe in touch and follow.


They touch him. They just touch me now.


Touch me. Touch


me. Man say you die by


correction. All those that hate my soul.


Love death. Me. I'm old covenant like


that. Oh, I'm old covenant like that.


Test me first.


Now you will know you have jammed


something. If the rock fall, it go crush


you.


Oh. Peace.


What happened


when I came out? I I thought you wanted


to use me as an example maybe for other


thing. So when you lay hands on me, I


saw something something like wind. I


tried to stagger. So the thing knocked


me down and that was all. I was I was


not hearing you very small small small.


I tried to stand up but it's as if all


my system were not functioning at that


time.


Help him. Help him. You are fine in


Jesus name.


Don't come against a praying man. Oh


yes. Sorry for you.


Zer said to the husband, "Hey man, if


he's really a Jew, we have just started


to fall. We will just be falling the go.


There's going to be no end of this hour


for the next day. They don't put out for


the gallow.


Life is power.


Life is power. Yes, sir. Life is power.


Yes, sir. I choose to walk. Oh, there's


another human being there.


Oh, peace. Wake.


help


out. Just like that. Just like that.


Oh, when you attend ministries like this


where you see the power of God every


day, you cause a fear. You disgrace us.


You disgrace


us. Live with the consciousness of God's


power.


Hallelujah.


Hallelujah.


The man said I'm a man under authority.


I say to one go and he goes another. So


it's how you use authority issue by


speaking. Yes sir.


Now watch. Let the power of God come


upon this first row, second row, third


row like a rushing mighty wind. Even now


it's like fire and wind upon them.


So our words can give direction. It's


not the same pastor I've been preaching


since. It's the same pastor that have


been preaching since. So our words can


give direction like


that. Why your own not working? Because


you think he's lost. Say let me just


try. We don't we don't do that nonsense.


Yeah. Let me try. We don't try. We use


the power of God. We are not testing to


see if it will work. That's how foolish


people act with the power of God. Is not


luck. We are not trying to see if it


will work. It always work.


How do you tell that manner that got


born again and the day got born again


and feel the spirit bring this away from


your hand? There's nothing like power of


God. He can't find it.


Maybe disappear to inside his house.


Check inside house. not


see when you heard of the visionary


shared the story of that woman that her


missing ring appear in her lap


say you have not seen


anything life is by power sir I say to


this week this is how you will go that's


how it will go


I said to another week, this is how it


will go. This is how it will go.


Say just like that. Just like that, sir.


Hallelujah. Praise God. Amen. Amen. Life


is supernatural.


Now, I've been so stressed all through


yesterday into the morning. Yeah,


yesterday the 19th of the


morning and my whole body is broken. I


said to my wife, I said once I climb up


now, the power of God will just come


upon me. The anointing to just look like


I'm not a normal human being because


that one can I'm jumping moving I mean


that


hey because when you are under the


anointing it's a different ball game or


every of the normal faculties are


suspended.


extremely tired physically that we


cannot say I'm not going to come to


church. No, no,


no. Speak to your body. You say since


I'm even going to preach the power of


God will just take over from there. I


just entered collected the


bank and the person in my house know say


that no


man I almost b the man of God this


morning cuz he not have


power. Life is


power life is supernatural.


We've seen too much to doubt the power


of God.


Nobody's going to tell me that the power


of God does not work. I've said to a


vehicle stop and the vehicle


stop. The plane does not have landing


gear. The plane still land. My life is


not in the air that it should be plucked


off. Say the plane there's something


wrong with the landing gear. And so I


did not see that I died in the air. So


why is the plane how does plane not have


landing gear have to do with me landing?


You must you must take away the


power of circumstances from hurting you


and let it be only what you say that


stands.


That's power. Yes sir.


Hallelujah.


Glory.


David could have uh immedately Goliath


turned the battle. 1st Samuel chapter


uh


17. Immedately Goliath turned the battle


to something else and caused David the


name of his God. David said, "You come


to me, but I come to you in the name of


the Lord." David also brought the Lord


inside though because the Battle is


longer a B. So it did not matter what


was in David's hand. David had already


said I would take off your head. It


didn't matter what was in David hand.


Even that's why I hate all those


depictions that the Amazon and the rest


are trying to depict in those nonsense


movies that Goliath through the


spearhead took


David that one is filmed. They trying to


act. If David had knocked his leg three


times on the ground, Golia would have


died. If David said I will not throw


stone, don't fall for that nonsense


cheap trick that Hollywood is doing. Oh,


the power of God is the power of God.


Jesus said make them sit. They say


there's no food. They say make them sit.


At the at the fourth watch, they saw a


man walking on the sea. Is this not a


ghost? It was Jesus. He said he would


have even walked past


them. You know, enter the boat


again. Read all these things. Let it


affect your concept of life. How you see


God. How you


see God is with me.


I'm not ordinary.


I'm a child of God. I'm a child of God.


I'm a child of God. I'm a child of God.


I'm supernatural. I'm superal. I'm a


child of God.


Three times Balam tried to cause and he


could not. There was a shout of a king.


Moses has stretched his hand over


Israel. A shadow of a king in their


midst in no walk, no enchantment, no


divination.


What do you believe? Joshua is down


fighting. Moses is up lifting his hands


up. Immediately Moses hand go down.


Joshua start losing. That you can fight.


That you have all the things does not


mean hand should not be lifted up.


Sometimes in the natural and and I've


been doing this a lot these days,


shutting people up who say things like


because they are not exposed. How


exposed are you? How much have you seen?


There's some amount you see now you you


may never come to church again. You may


backslide. You have not seen money now.


You have not handled people's money.


I've handled people's money that can


make you not sleep well at


night. You see there's there's nothing


like that. Nobody's using forces. How


many persons do you know? How many


billions do you know in this life? How


many is not watching them on


television? How many have interactions


with you? How many that you are so bold


to knock off what we are seeing with


experience? How many do you know?


Because people always say it's not like


that. Let anybody fool you. Everything


is about hard work. Really? Oh, I was


watching a video of this wonderful woman


who was the first bank uh Mrs.


Ibuka. She was sharing that story of


I've heard that story before from her,


but it just hits again differently.


watch seen it again this


week about the man man that got a


job that could eas and they were saying


no it's not supposed to be him it's not


supposed to be him and and later she


found out that when she was telling her


P to check that s that the wife had no


that wife they pray and


later she had resigned uh she had left


the whole industry now but that man


wrote a letter to her and stating that


God used her


Stop


thinking there's nothing supernatural


about it. Nothing supernatural about it.


There's nothing supernatural about it.


Only when you have used the power of


God, you will know that things are


supernatural.


How did how did Abraham deliver


Lot? by skillfulness of


sword and he packed servants from his


house and defeated four nations that


defeated five


nations. Those four lepers they let us


go and the whole nation ran because


their footstep was like footstep of the


army left all not only at least you want


to go back pack your things


now that the word of the man of God will


come to pass that a corn will be sold


for this amount. It looked impossible


that that man that le on the king staff


said this thing cannot happen. Elisha


said you will see it but you not eat it.


Add again. Put the man in the place


where we sit anoint it.


Hallelujah.


I believe God. I believe God.


I believe God. I believe God.


Ahijah said to Jehoban's wife, why have


you disguised yourself? The man is going


blind though. He cannot even see


physically again. The Jeroban's wife


still had to disguise for a blind man.


You still disguise yourself. He still


catch you before you even knock door.


Why have you disguised yourself of


Jeroboam? Come in then told her. She


didn't even have to say what she came


for. He go die or he go die. Nothing go


change the


matter. The stories are there for our


doctrine.


Hallelujah.


We believe in prayers.


We believe in hands laid. We believe in


words spoken.


It's not by like it's by like that. For


Joshua was full of wisdom. Because Moses


had laid his hands on him. So if you ask


Joshua, why are you full of wisdom? He


won't say because I read 50 books. No,


he say hands were laid on me. We must


not deny spiritual infrastructure.


Hallelujah.


For they perceive that these men had


been with Jesus.


Hallelujah.


[Music]


I can tell you things that have changed


in my life because hands were laid on


me. Words were spoken over me. I can


tell you quantum leaps that have


happened in my finances because the


visionary said this to me. Because


Reverend Williams laid hands on me and


said, "You will see it.


There some things that are


unexplainable.


Let's be supernatural.


Amen. Amen.


Thank you


Jesus. No weapon that is formed against


me shall prosper. Hallelujah.


Life is not just about sense. Oh, life


is not just about hard work. Oh, life is


not just about degrees. Oh, life is not


just about connections. Oh,


add power.


Stop seeing life ordinarily. Add power.


Add power. Our sister shared with us


that story of her account and they told


that what was that account again? Uh


PayPal account that they said that once


you have lost that once that account


have been locked like that it cannot be


opened. It was miracle meeting. It was


was it Saturday or Sunday?


In the ninth.


The account was now activated back after


the the chances even the the expert gave


the chances that is


impossible. She now said there's nothing


else to believe God for. Let me just


pull this account in the hand of God


that this account have been closed will


be open. Power of God


open


there. We don't do lock here. Yes sir.


We have a greater charm than luck. Yes


sir. The grace of God is working for us.


Yes sir. We we have a greater force that


we walk with than luck.


No we are not doing that. Say may you be


lucky today. No no no no. To have a


wife. Abraham said the angel of the Lord


will go with you Elazar to ensure that


you get a wife for my child. for


marriage marriage people they marry the


eye woman they go add join Abraham you


see how he's thinking he's conscious of


the unseen to let's read that story look


at how Elza was telling the story that


my or made me swear


oh before I left the


house Genesis


24 and my master made me swear verse 37


saying thou shalt not take a wife to my


sons of the daughters of the Canaanites


in whose hand in whose land I dwell but


thou shalt go unto my father's house and


to my kindred and take a wife unto my


son and I said unto my master par


venture the woman will not what if the


woman not g follow


me verse 40 and he said


unto the Lord God before whom I walk


will send his angel with you and prosper


thy


way. This thing go work.


Abraham cannot even think normally


again. Say angel will follow you to to


make this thing work to prosper that way


and that shall take a wife for my son of


my kindred and of my


fathers for wife. Sead angel


join is by forces.


is by is by is by it.


Through you, Lord, I run through a


troop.


Hallelujah.


We believe God.


That sister shared the story with us.


The blood sample that has already been


taken, the power of God still corrected


that one. Even the blood sample they


would have said ah since she has gotten


healed now the power of God still went


back the one that they already took


before that could have showed something.


There are things you hear even if they


born you to be a doubter it should die.


It should die like no no no no I've seen


too much to doubt God again. Let let


miracles renew your mind. Let


possibilities of almightiness renew your


mind that know it's either it work or it


work. Heads or tail we win. Yes sir. We


have no option but to win.


Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen.


The man of God and that's what I


believe. The man of God said to the


woman, "The corn, the flower will not


fail." And he say it happened accord. So


you see that that was against economic


principles. The flower that widow of


Zarat say prepare for me first. Today's


bloggers would have evil man of God


telling a woman to prepare for him


first. But she was going to die now.


Both she and her husband she and her


child would have died now. Evil man of


God. This is how men of God do now. Stop


talking about things she don't know


anything


about. Evil man of God. He say prepare


for me first. This is how they go


about making people poor.


For people who have an issue with


giving, I always say what about the one


that the Lord now told you is the Lord


also now being manipulated. The Lord is


not telling you to


give and I have told you maybe I'm one


of those fewentric which is B to say it


or Christ interpreter which or people


that like sound to tell you many of you


are where you are financially because


you don't listen to the voice of God.


All those prompt and n God has put in


your heart to give to pray to go here do


that you don't yield is why you are


where you are and you may be envying all


of us who why do you envy our results so


much but you don't want to copy our work


copy the workings you like result but


you don't like


working me I like working how did he get


there I like it let me copy it too don't


change what works


Don't change what works. Don't change


what works. Don't change what works.


Hallelujah.


Don't change what works. I beg you.


Is it by is by it? Because if that widow


had not given to


Elijah, Elijah would not have said what


Elijah said. Why did God not do it on


that way?


You see all those kind of questions that


look like good question is why people


stay the way they are staying. But she


was going to eat it and die.


It didn't matter anything. Why didn't


ask how come she was just going to eat


and


die? Last year the Lord asked me that


question. He said, "Did you observe that


the woman that was in


depth did not go to another credit


agency, but she ran to the prophets and


said, "They have also come to take away


my


sons." Where do you turn to when you are


out of options? The power of God always


works.


The man of God said, "Get, what do you


have in your house?" Say I have this


lock the


doors call it the principle of the shut


door. Now that's the same way when you


say when you enter your closed pray say


shut the door and keep pouring


oil until there was no more vessel. How


do you that kind of story and say you


don't believe in miracle? Either you


believe in the Bible or you don't


believe in the Bible.


There are too many supernatural stories


in the Bible.


Too many. Share with you that story of


that of of that boy when we were in


school that I went to to visit my friend


in their


room and they were arguing about


miracles and somebody from nowhere we


just heard heavy slaph what happened and


the person that slapped somebody before


we could know is crying. So everybody


calm down now who slap person they cry.


Then he brought out his phone and showed


a picture of his sister who had one leg


shorter than one. He said it wasn't Riad


Bonkey Crusade. He said we had just


entered into the Oak Stadium and her leg


grew out. He said if you say miracles


does not exist again I'll give you


another slap. Then he said me I'm not


even born again. He said but you cannot


tell me miracles are not real. Are we


all going to deny what we have seen?


Because so that you will be happy. You


and your evil bloggers to be happy. We


will not deny the power of God. No, no,


no, no, no, no, no. We will not deny the


power of God.


We will not deny it. I've come too far.


I've come too far to be to be doubting


to be


denying this thing. They work.


The power of God works is always working


and will always come true for me. God is


no respector of persons. God is not


doing


favoritism. He that cometh to God must


believe that he is and of them that seek


him.


Hallelujah.


Amen.


The difference between many of us and


you is that when we heard that voice


pray two hours every day, we maintained


it. When we heard that nudge in our


heart, give to that your gas, give him


this 5 million. and say, "Ah, 5


million." H it's not fair. It's not


fair. We did it. When we heard carry


your leg now go to that office, but you


didn't call the supervisor that you were


coming. Just go. We


went following those


nudges. Following those nudges of the


spirit. When we got that n by all that


property, we bought it. Then after it


it's 50x they say I don't know how


things are just working for them


differently because we are doing


different things we are being led by the


spirit God have sent his angel to


prosper our


way have sent his angel to prosper our


way and I choose to be led by the spirit


of


God I choose to be led by the spirit of


God my life will not go the normal way


no my life will go in the direction of


the power of God


[Music]


Hallelujah.


I don't know why Abra why uh uh what's


his name Jacob will make it about say


prepare anything that my soul love so


that uh Isaac sorry that my soul love


that I will bless.


See blessings come from different depth


in a man's


heart and that


one there are special


moments there are special times maximize


it learn it and that's because I prayed


some prayers for some there are some


prayers I know said that prayer even it


touched me way where well that one came


from a


depth I don't believe in those things I


I don't I don't you don't believe in


anything but you like supernatural


results your life will be growing with


your normal hard work sense result but


our own we have the same sense we have


the same hard work we have the same


degrees we have the same but we have


added power to our


own and that's the one that we


believe that's the one that I


believe that's the one that I believe


that's the one that I


believe that's the one that I believe


I'll be led by the spirit of God.


Mary said, "Whatever he tells you to do,


do it." That's the secret of miracle.


Whatever he tells you to do, do


it. For many, once they hear money


inside what he tells them to do, they


remember their favorite preacher that


told them you are not buying miracle.


Who told you are buying miracle before?


Are you that silly?


You are explaining Bible to God that


Lord you know that it's not the giving


that will make it happen. So obviously


God is a fool. He doesn't know what he's


telling you and I'm saying many time


because among people who like sound that


one not hear that one and is the


99% of the reason why many believers


never experience supernatural abundance


because the only abundance they


experience is the one that had what gave


them. when they now hear testimonies


other person are


[Music]


having those a brother I was looking at


him and I said you would do 4 hours oh


you would do it two days in a row then


things will change I said ah I just give


God thanks now that's


it they they argue with who they see is


the word of the lord with you the word


of lord is with me and you know they


said those the kings when They came


together and said find a man that have


the word of the Lord with


him that I have revelation they see I'm


telling you this is what to do thank God


he did it he said man of God things are


now looking different I reminded him now


so you argue with me the other day


there's a concentrated time you would


have spent there some other person I


said do you even have a dollar account


they say and I was thinking about it see


you are thinking about


it. The Lord said to me, go and open one


of the accounts. I was in the bank. My


very first account that I opened, I was


still in the bank when somebody asked me


for my bank account details. I didn't


have a bank account. I


mean, my very first account, which is a


GT bank account, I was in the bank when


somebody asked me for my account number.


So the money I I would have used to


deposit to open the account. It was


somebody that sent


it and the person did not know that I


was still inside the bank opening


account. I finished praying and the Lord


said make sure it does not exceed this


week to open that bank account. I said


oh yeah nice before I was using my


brother account that my brother


[Music]


there I was there stories we don't share


but I'm I'm opening archives for you. I


was in the


bank when I'm in char what I don't do


those stupid things while I was in the


way the Lord led me I'm always led by


the spirit of


God the day I open a dollar account that


same week somebody asked me for my


dollar


[Music]


account from prayer we have had motions


and I was open that dollar account the


Lord said also stretch it open and pound


account


I said, "Ah, who dash monkey


banana?" They used to dash monkey


banana. I was that stupid though. I used


that statement for the Lord. Dash monkey


banana. The Lord said they used to dash


monkey banana. That's how monkey used to


eat banana. They used to dash


them. Let your heart


enlarge. I used to say 1 million is


enough to when you take responsibility


for other person 1 million will not be


enough. You are too selfish. That's why


you think 1 million is big. Now that


they are paying you 1 million, we can't


even see how many lives you have because


your prosperity is only for you and you


also stingy man. No life has been


blessed. Nobody around you has been


helped by your finances. Then when we


now say believe God for lifting power,


you say no after what they are paying me


is


enough. Because you are not carrying


weight. But if you are carrying weight


of of of people, you will know that we


need to believe God. Oh, there's


something called favor.


There's something called favor.


And you see it works even for


unbelievers. Unbelievers have been


favored too. But you child of God had a


friend of mine. He had never been given


anything in his life until I told him


that brother you not believe in favor.


But you don't you believe that


everything in this life I must that same


week is alive and well when maybe when


one of the days he attend our service I


pray to him so you see it I said it to


him another one is a pastor that one has


preached for me before I because he has


worked hard and I said to him that's why


nobody's giving to you I said your was


telling me his members have they rarely


ever I said not just because you have


money it's a posture I said change it


start thinking like people see me and


they love to give In the week he started


one one of his member that I did not


know have money that I thought can they


have anything to give me came and said


pastor I've been I've been meaning to


give you this for some time now some


time now you see the


forces some time now not doing work


because he's he's some people see you


and they say he doesn't deserve that


much money now just find two five and


give him that's the forces that I'm


telling you here there are some of


There are some of you to do something


for say no find


5K 5K will try for the brother.


There's a pastor I said to him I said


people have but every time they see you


they want to reduce the money that why


should we give him that kind of big


moneyh they have rated you for


change is forces so that give people


that notion of no no he doesn't deserve


that much now ah 25k is enough 10k is


enough you will break that mentality you


will break that mentality


Break it. Yes, sir. I believe God. I


believe God. Stand on your feet. I


believe God. I believe God. I believe


God. I believe God. I believe God for


miracles. God for miracles. I believe


God. I believe God for breakthrough. For


breakthrough. For lifting.


For the pillars of the earth is the


Lord.


I believe God. Oh.


I believe God. Oh.


There are conversations that we are


having now. There are boardrooms that we


are sitting down


[Music]


now. I believe God. I believe God. I


believe God. I believe God.


May I believe


God? After I told that my friend about


believing for favor in his


office, his own was even the next day in


his


office his colleague gave


him


money because I don't I don't


[Music]


force everything this life I have is


what my hard work gave me. That's why


you are having it so and then you now


want to argue with us that all these


things does not work. It does not work


because you are against it. Your whole


life, your whole framing is against it.


But as you rise in society, you will


know the place of influence. You will


know the place of favor before those


that matter. Because not everything that


my hard work and my money will bring me


in. Can God furnish a table in the


wilderness, my own God can. And I


believe God. I'm not against hard work


and that's why God can tell you to get


another degree. God can tell you to


learn a skill. We are not against that.


We believe in the We believe the best.


We believe in two words. But I believe


God. I believe God.


Thank you Jesus. Lift your hands and


pray in the Holy Ghost. I believe God. I


believe


God. God is the lifter of man.


God is a lifter of


men. I believe


[Music]


God, I've come as God's servant this


morning to tell you is by hiding that


notion in your heart. Yes, sir is by


that 5 million you are going to give.


Yes, ma is by that one million you are


going to give. Yes sir. Is by


that all through the night you are going


to pray into the morning is by it. It's


by it is by it. Yield to the Holy Ghost.


Do those things God put in your heart to


do. Learn to maximize spiritual moment.


Strike as the fire is


[Music]


hot. You yield to the Holy Ghost. You do


as the Lord leads you to


do to


pray to


fast to build associations and allies


and relationship and


partnership. You do


that the foolth himself because I know


the way into the city but I know the way


into the city. The Lord is leading me.


The Lord is guiding me.


[Music]


God is leading


me. God is guiding


me. Things are working.