Evening Lord again we open our hearts to


your spirit and we trust that in this


service the eyes of our understanding


will be enlightened. Thank you for the


preciousness of your word and we declare


that again revelation knowledge will


flood our hearts this evening. We


declare that the things that ought to be


said in this service will be said. The


things that ought to be done will be


done to the praise and glory of your


name.


Amen. God bless you. have your seats.


And um


Genesis chapter 1 and vers 1, the Bible


says, "In the beginning, God created the


heaven and the earth." In the beginning,


God created the heaven and the earth.


And we said that the story of the Bible,


it's a heaven and earth story. It's a


seen and unseen world narrative.


Hebrewsap 11:3 it says through faith we


understand that the worlds were framed


the periods of time were framed were


framed by the word of God the word of


God the periods of time were framed by


the word of God so that the things which


are seen were made of the things which


do not appear and said the faith of the


Lord Jesus the faith of our God was


explained and communicated in the


scriptures using the sin and the unseen


world. Amen. And our teaching on unseen


forces, we deal with all that is unseen


about the powers that we have. And that


will deal with the power of the Holy


Ghost that is resident within us. that


will deal with the ministry of angels


that God has given to us. Amen.


and our exercise or practice of the


faith within those two operations,


our exercise of faith or our practice of


the Christian living within us having


the Holy Ghost and within


the study of the ministry of angels.


It's the focus when we talk about unseen


forces. Amen. That we have the ministry


of angels, that we have the Lord Jesus


or the Holy Ghost inside of us with us,


and we have the power of God that we can


engage and use and see a difference in


our lives, our ministries, our


circumstances. Amen.


Hallelujah. And in the converse of that


we have uh uh the dark powers which will


deal with principalities, powers, might,


dominion, every name that is named that


is not in line with God.


Amen. That will deal with the powers of


darkness.


And also


all those who practice or engage in the


worship of the devil who are opposed to


us


which the in the biblical uh palance


would be sorceress,


wise men, wizard,


witches and today we have many names for


such persons. Amen. And that is also


what this series seeks to unravel. But


we are particular about being wise and


strong with his power. I am wise with


the power of God. I am strong with the


power of God. Amen. I'm wise with the


power of God. I'm strong with the power


of God. Amen.


Amen. Amen. Colossians chapter 1 and um


so the force is the power. We have


unseen powers, unseen forces, good ones


and negative one. Good ones that are


with us and for us. Negative ones that


are opposed to us. And we must resist


those negative forces. In fact, many


times when people hear unseen forces,


the way they think it, it's in the


negative which is very wrong because


they are not very conscious of the


ministry of angels or the power of God's


spirit. Amen. Colossians chapter 1 and


verse 16, it says, "For by him were all


things." Colossians 1 and verse 16. For


by him were all things created that are


in heaven, that are in the earth,


visible and invisible, whether they be


thrones or dominion or principalities or


powers. All things were created by him


and for him. Observe verse 16. For by


him were all things created that are in


heaven. So there were things created in


heaven and things created on the earth.


to the Genesis chapter one creation


story that gives you that idea that


there was no unseen creation. It's the


wrong way of reading.


It's a wrong way of reading. And I've


told you over the years that Moses use


of words communicated the seen and the


unseen word in that creation. Amen.


Because uh


one creation is used to explain another


creation. Just like in the natural


we can describe somebody or human being


with with plant characteristics. For


example, you say that man is the great


evil of our village. That man is


is it's is it's the evil core of our


family. The mahogany and you know how uh


plants are used in if I look at how he


says we will bear fruit in season. I


bear fruit in season. You are not a


fruit. You are not a tree. Amen. We bear


fruit in season. But you are a human


being. How are you bearing fruit in


season? Amen. And the same way animals


say he is strong like a lion. Obi is a


lion. He's not a lion. He's a is a man.


But be is a lion. So we're using another


creation which will say the animal


kingdom to describe man. The same way we


can use words as we can even use the


aquatic kingdom or we can use water to


describe somebody. So we can use


different creation to explain creation.


But when it comes to the Bible, we want


to all of a sudden be silly and not have


that kind of depiction where one


creation can explain another. We want it


to be no just exactly the way I read it.


But not true. Amen. Because if that is


the case, Genesis 2 verse one, Genesis


chapter 2 and verse one will not read.


Thus the heavens and the earth were


finished and all the host of them and


all the host of them. Even if you didn't


want to go to school, host of them,


it didn't say. So the host of them


cannot be only one host of them. So


there are two hosts in Genesis 2:1. the


host of heaven and the host of the earth


were finished.


So if you only have earth in Genesis


chapter one, you didn't read Genesis


chapter one because Genesis chapter one


has heaven and earth that God created.


Then he says the earth without form and


void which we have seen in Jeremiah


chapter 4 that that word the earth


without form and void means the heavens


have no light. So again then we have


15:16 where it talks about the sun, moon


and star which is are for signs and for


seasons which depicts the unseen world.


A sign that every time you see the sun,


moon and star you know that there is


something else in the world. There is


something else in the world which is


supernatural and that becomes a word


used as a synonym for supernatural


beings for angels


host of heaven heavenly host heavenly


beings. Hallelujah.


And so we've seen Ephesians chapter 1 17


it says God father will give unto us the


spirit of wisdom and revelation


knowledge of him. Wisdom and revelation


of the spirit not another spirit. We


already have the spirit of God. The


wisdom and revelation of the spirit. The


wisdom and revelation of the spirit.


Then he says in verse that the eyes of


our understanding verse 18 the pine


prayer that we always talk about the we


prayed every service day the eyes of our


understanding be enlightened that we may


know what is the hope of his calling


what is the riches of the glory of the


inheritance in the saint and what be the


exceeding greatness of his power the


exceeding greatness of his power verse


19 and emphasis exceeding greatness of


his power that's what we have that is


unseen forces amen but we don't only


have uh execute of his power, we also


have the ministry of angels. Hebrews


chapter 1 verse14.


Hebrews chapter 1:14 say, "Are they not


all ministering spirits sent to minister


for them who shall be heads of


salvation?" We have the ministry of


angels. Amen. Hallelujah. God gave us


the ministry of angels.


The angel of the Lord encamp round about


them that fear him. Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen. So we said that when


describing


supernatural beings, we would need to


and we taught this last year that there


are three things to take note that there


are words in the Bible that describes


the nature of supernatural being and the


nature is what they are like. Then there


are words or phrases in the Bible that


describes their function. So when we're


talking about the heavenly being as


we've looked at the different words used


to explain the word heaven and we saw


that heaven could is a short form of


supernatural beings as well. Heavenly


being heaven. So when Paul when Moses


say I call heaven and earth to bear


record he was not speaking about sky and


sand but supernatural beings and human


beings to bear witness. Hallelujah.


Because they are all witness. And when


he when David in the Psalms talks about


the assembly in the heavens, the heavens


praise him is not the physical heavens


in Psalm 89 as we've read those texts


already in this series this year. Amen.


That is supernatural beings. So when


Luke tells us that the host of heaven


were singing and rejoicing when Jesus


was born, that is not some moon and


star. that is supernatural beings that


we already have words and phrases for.


So there are words that describe their


nature. There are words or phrase that


describe their function. And the word


function what they do.


Are you with me? Then there are words


that describe their status, what we will


call hierarchy, their rank in respect to


other members of the heavenly host. And


we are so familiar with the word a n g e


l which we said if all you know in the


bible is a n g e l for angels you have a


very uh


uh tiny you


minute tiny a fragment


of the full knowledge of supernatural


beings in the Bible because there is


more use of supernatural beings in the


Bible than the search engine a n g e l.


In fact, the word go is used more for


supernatural being than is used


for than is used more for supernatural


being than than a NGL is used for


supernatural beings in the sense of if


you have this number of references for


NGL for supernatural. You have times two


of it as go for supernatural beings.


The average man outside proper biblical


interpretation or sound doctrine do not


even know that the use of the word


Elohim is not only used for Yahweh is


not only used for the God who created


heaven and earth. That the use of the


word Elohim is used in the Bible for


half a dozen other entities. That itself


is the beginning of Bible study. That


when I read the word Elohim, I need to


know which which Elohim are we talking


about? Because Elohim in the Hebrew is


not a blanket word for God. Elohim is


used for a resident of the unseen word.


A resident of the unseen world. And


because God is the father of spirit and


he is spirit, source of spirit. And he


is spirit. He is also called an Elohim.


And he is not


in any way


ashamed to call himself what he calls


supernatural beings. The same way he's


not ashamed to call himself


or be reckoned as a man


as we are men. Amen. God identifies with


his seen and unseen creation. Amen.


Hallelujah. I mean before the


incarnation of Jesus, God was called the


man of war


and he is not ashamed to use the phrase


man to describe himself. God identifies


with the seen and unseen creation. Amen.


So the use of the word Elohim is not a


blanket term.


And so for those who were part of that


series where we extensively taught last


year, we made a case and I will just run


through some of the things we said.


The use of the word spirit.


Supernatural beings are called what?


Spirit. Hebrews chapter one. in no


particular order just uh uh phrases


words slashphrases that describes the


nature


of unseen beings. Number one in no


particular order is the word ruak.


The word ra Hebrews chapter one the word


spirit Hebrews chapter one and verse 6


or verse 7 precisely so that we don't we


don't need a context for this because


we're just running through. Amen. We're


not doing an exesis on a particular text


so we can read


without the paragraphs to save time.


Amen. All right. Hebrews 1. And I want


to say a lot of things as we begin to


wind down in this series. Amen. Hebrews


1 and verse 7. And of the angels, he


said, who maketh his angels spirit and


his ministers a flame of fire. He maketh


his angels spirit. That's how they were


made. They were made spirit. Remember


the nature of a describes what a thing


is like. The unturn ontology


who they are and what they are like. So


what they are what they are like they


are like spirits new matter.


So the the Greek word for spirit new he


maketh his angels new


matter.


They are spirit being. They are ruak ru.


R u a h o t just means you understand


the Hebrew language. Fear not is the


same thing as ruak. Just putting the OT


means you have a better understanding of


the Hebrew language. It's the same thing


with the use of the word new matter. It


just means you're not your knowledge of


the Greek language is not just from


concordance


but it's okay. All right. So using the


word new manak is okay. It doesn't


exclude you to sound more theological


because you know. Amen. All right. So


never be scared of being intelligent


because nothing wrong to be intelligent.


Psalm 104:4 is where that text is gotten


from.


Psalm 104:4, who maketh his angels


spirits, his ministers a flaming fire.


That's how they were made. They were


made spirits.


They were made spirits.


First Kings 22.


First Kings 22.


Remember we said we're going to be fast.


So I beg you follow me. First Kings 22.


That's the last chapter of first kings


by the way. First Kings 22 and verse 19.


Micaiah the son of Imla is having that


vision. And he said and he said thou


therefore the word of the Lord. The word


of the Lord there remember I've told you


is the word used in the Hebrew text to


explain a visible encounter. What you


will call a revelation. So the word word


of the lord there it's a visible


encounter like a vision or a revelation


when you say the word of the lord is


with that man are you following doesn't


mean everybody does not have the word of


the lord in that sense but they use it


to explain the visible repres visible


encounters tangible encounters where you


interact you have such tangible


experience in that soayiah


is saying is like I was in that meeting


and I was hearing divine conversations.


I was in that council. I was hearing


what was being said and obviously he's a


prophet. A prophet is one who stands in


the divine council and hears


conversations. Amen. Hallelujah. And the


newb made us not just to stand in that


council but to be a member of that


council now. Amen. Hallelujah.


God has his two assemblies fully


function at the assembly in heaven and


the assembly on earth meeting convening


every time and that's something we will


need to do a separate series on to talk


about


what led to it just something around


that I like to uh title things in a way


that draws attention so you need to know


what led to it all right the meeting.


The meeting before it happened. There's


always a meeting.


What meeting was he had before this


happened? Amen. And when we get familiar


with supernatural things to that degree


where we realize that, oh, things don't


just happen. We can confirm things and


also things that have happened, we can


legislate and say, no, we don't want


this. Amen. I shared with you how the


Lord woke me up. uh


after the election a day or two no I


think the day after the election the


presidential election he said you can't


be sleeping and uh you can't be sleeping


and there is a great evil about to break


loose upon the land now the Lord as I


woke up that was the very first thing I


turned my lovely wife was by my side so


I knew it was not hard I was talking to


me cuz it sounded weird. She was fast


asleep. So I got up, left the room and


as I sat in my study place the Lord said


to me, you can't be sleeping and I'm


waking up other persons like you who


have voice and who have rank whose words


can change and defy what has been


spoken. I didn't know I didn't know I


have any level that day. I knew I had


level. And he said to me


that open your eyes. So I opened my eyes


in the spirit and I saw a great evil.


And he said do not think you will be


exempt from it or your family. For


people you love will also die if this


great evil is unleashed. For much


speaking, much anger has erupted hell in


such a manner that the devils are


looking for blood. blood blood in the


sense that lives will be lost because


people are saying we will not take it


this cannot happen and it's going to


turn into a greater than answers by 10


and so I've already gotten orders


praying so join praying till the morning


so that means our prayers have effect


join the praying so and I love the


phrase men whose whose Words matter. Who


can defy


what has been spoken? Because words


spoken set a course, a trajectory of how


things will be in the realm of the


spirit, how things will play out in the


natural.


And I remember uh 3 days after that


people going to say how come everybody's


just taking this thing calmly? By now


everywhere should be on fire. That's how


you know pre power prayer is prevailing.


Everywhere should be on fire by now.


Everywhere should be burning now.


The restraining force has been placed


against those things. People just re


react emotionally and say let's burn,


let's do this. There's many times an


unseen force behind many of those kind


of events or or issues and I knew that


for example during the end and that's


why I told you because I have already


commanded and spoken to the devil you


will touch and hold not one and we will


have our meeting we will not postpone


our meeting because there is a protest


and I ask the lord the lord say yes go


ahead the meeting will hold no nothing


will happen in fact you could even have


a longer time have a good time in a


conference and we had a longer time in


the meeting in in the time of ebook


because there was an evil behind it.


There was an evil behind it and yeah all


powers of darkness. So you will know we


we can address that evil directly and


they know who is has given them that


embargo you will go no further. So they


know the people to be following


and that's how we held that meeting. So


this was going to be greater. So I mean


thank God my theology had woken up a bit


because I used to know this then some


wonderful theology or sound doctrine as


we call them began to affect my


understanding of this heavenly council


stuff. But thank God I didn't let it.


Thank God I'm a bit stubborn in some


things and I didn't bulge and change if


not would have been harder when to


rediscover that supernatural worldview


context in this regard especially as


relates to the heavenly council because


I had read the Bible cover to cover as I


always would say but there were boring


and weird parts of the Bible we used to


omit but no longer


uh four years ago, will I omit the


boring parts of the Bible? So, I began


to do more research on the boring and


the weird parts. The part that everybody


skips, the part that makes no sense. Why


does he say the north? The Lord is from


the north. Why does he use all what does


all those kind of phrases? Why does he


mention the wilderness of Kadesh? What


does wilderness of Kadesh mean? All


those things that have no meaning. Why


does he say the Lord from Par shine from


par? Why par? Why not shine from my


village?


Why shine from par? So before we ignore


those things and just say it has no


context. Why when he shone is it was


from Salmon, what does all those words


mean?


What does all those boring weird things


mean? And I again rediscover the core


supernatural worldview context that we


shouldn't lose. And I was going to lose


it because of how we just jump in with


some of our teachers in some of their


strong emphasis. Amen. So no longer


would I be found teaching or or


communicating like that. If not I would


have told the Lord, Lord, what does that


mean?


Count me out of it. Amen.


We we determine the things that and that


day because I uh


uh was told of the seven great reforms


that the leader will bring into the


country and one has already begun and


two will be begin before the year end


the third by before June next year and


there will be seven great reforms and


people would not like him but at the end


of the day they will be grateful he was


their leader all the same as much as the


other man would have done a good job


as well. Amen.


Life can be spiritual.


Life can be life should be. There are


some things that that have a mysterious


supernatural context to it.


Um you may not like a man, you may not


endorse a man. doesn't remove the place


of of in fact I even beg you stop hating


people because if you overly hate people


then God will be for them. Most people


do not know God as a judge. They only


know God as God which is a problem. They


don't know God as judge. They only they


don't also know God as father. They


don't know God as early on as most high


over everybody good and bad. So they are


shocked sometimes where God answers an


unbeliever prayer. I said but unbeliever


is not serving you. Thank God God is not


a pocket size fit all. No. Thank God is


bigger than your imagination of him


because some of the some of the persons


today who we are grateful to God for


it was those deliverances that got them


born again say how could say why did God


just let that man die? I remember the


story of a man who used to who who


smashed a baby against the wall and the


blood splashed on his body and he didn't


care hardened of I mean you I mean


people are evil but not that evil and


later that man got born again and I mean


he couldn't even believe he could ever


be born again because he was telling the


preachers you know what I've done you


have not heard evil let me tell you evil


sir the preacher wasn't most convinced


anymore to lead him to Christ again like


this one ought to die. This one ought to


and he mentioned some great evil he has


done. But you see God is the God of all


flesh and we must allow him be God of


all flesh. The same way sometimes we


don't like God's judgment system that


he's slow that he doesn't he's not fast.


We called on him and we didn't see him


show up in two days. We didn't see him


show up in seven days. And that's why we


must always rediscover that supernatural


world view context to step back a bit


and just look into the spirit and find


out what is happening. Amen. Look into


the spirit and find out what is


happening. Find out what God is doing,


what God is about.


Hallelujah.


Because there is a supernatural context


to many things that may not look like


it. The job scenario is one of the


loudest in the Bible to show us that


there is a world view.


There is there is


something can happen before and it will


look like oh it's just coincidence but


if we didn't have the job chapter one


would have thought it was coincidence


but that was in coincidence.


If we didn't have the backdrop of the


Ahab story would have said oh it's just


coincidence but it wasn't. He had to


die. If we didn't have the backdrop


story


for Nebuchadnezzar,


we would not know why the man is now


acting like a beast eating grass.


We will not know


if we did not have the background story


for Noah. We won't know what brought the


flood, why the flood. If we did not,


there are many things uh issues in the


Bible. If we did not have a background


story,


we would not know. If we did not have a


background story, we wouldn't know the


kind of bet that Samson was. If we did


not have Yeah. If we didn't have that


background story, if we didn't have the


background story of Gideon would know


how he was such a mighty man.


So there are a lot of background stories


and we must not miss those background


stories.


Amen. So first Kings 22 and verse


um 19 and he said yeah thou therefore


the word of the Lord I saw the Lord


sitting on his throne and all the host


of heaven standing by him on the right


and on his left. So, a classic


assembly meeting, supernatural assembly


meeting or divine council meeting, any


of the phrases count, heavenly counsel,


divine counsel.


And all the host of heaven standing by


him on his right and on his left. And


the Lord said,


and the Lord said, who shall persuade


Ahab that he may go up? Now of course


this is not how it is happening. This is


how he uh he phrases it or he puts it


together. It's simply a meeting setup


and the whole idea of the meeting don't


take it as a word for word narration


because he can't give a word for word


narration.


I can't give a word for word narration.


And notice the word in 21. And there


came forth a spirit. That's what I want


you to see. There came forth a spirit


and stood before the Lord. That's the


word. That word spirit there is


supernatural being. It's the same word.


This then you look at 21 there came


forth a spirit.


22 a lying spirit.


22 lying spirit. 23 a lying spirit


24 which way went the spirit of the lord


to speak from me to speak unto thee. So


the use of the word spirit is in that


context and there is a differentiation.


So though the word spirit can be used to


describe a person's intellect emotional


state it could also be used to describe


a member of all the member of the host


of heaven. So when we see that word vak


in the bible it has multiple application


but in this context is dealing with a


personality.


So this spirit either took control of


the minds of aha prophet or influence


them to speak


in a unanimous uh manner deception to


the wicked king.


is the same thing in Judges chapter 9.


Judges chapter 9 verse 22.


And Aimec had reigned three years over


Israel. Then God sent an evil spirit


between Aimc and the men of Sheckchim.


between Abamech and the men of Sheckchim


and the men is old English. God does not


have evil spirit working for him. That's


silly. That's stupid. Makes no sense.


This is uh the the Hebrew tenses writes


the causative and the permissive


together. So when he says God sent an


evil spirit, if the spirit is from the


Lord and is called evil, then evil does


not mean what evil means in English


because the words are not as English as


you suppose. The word evil has more than


one meaning. For example, it was used


for man being alone. Being without


relationship is evil. There's not


diabolical there.


The use of the word evil has more than


one context. It's not every time evil


that is devilish.


So when he says faithful are the wounds


of a friend that is evil. The blows is


the same thing. The gentle nudges is the


same word used. If you being evil know


how to give good gifts to your children.


Ah evil there is not. If you being human


that's the context. If you being human,


know how to give good gifts to your


children. But use the word if you being


evil. So always be careful of biblical


phrases and words is the reason why we


do a we always look at word meaning.


What do the words mean in the original


why we don't say silly things like to


hear with Hebrew language to with Greek


language.


Hallelujah.


So if I tell you that the the person who


embodies goodness


sent an evil spirit, you already know


he's a figure of speech or you know that


the figurative expression has been used


there because if I told you Ellen Mox is


very poor, you're going to be asking


which Ellen Mox. You I did not have to


tell you it's a figure of speech but


you're not going to take that literally.


Why? because you know who Ellen Mock is.


You can't agree that's the richest man


in the world. You can't agree that he is


poor and I did not have to tell you it


is a figure of speech is the same thing


when we say the foolishness of God you


had enough sense to know God is not


foolish. Now other persons don't have


enough sense when they hear rot of God


they say God is rot when they hear


foolishness of God because of home


training they can't say God is foolish.


Beautiful. So many times we we want to


change the rules of literature.


So we don't have to tell you that this


is a figure of speech because you have


sense the Hebrew language is cognitive.


The English language is volal. So you


will easily see the cursor of the


action. The Hebrew language does not


have cursor of the action. So many time


when you see I will do this, I will.


There is no Hebrew word for that I and


will because pronouns are subject to


interpolation in the Hebrew language.


There are rules of language. That's why


they teach you vocabulary. Every


language has vocabulary. That's why


there is a way I will pronounce a yoba


word. Now you will give it different


meaning. There's a way I will pronounce


it will say something else. Why? Because


the words can mean different things. How


it is used. Then somebody to I remember


learning uh a language and I said


something said no you don't say it like


that. I said but you said that's the


word say no you will not use that word


in that context another word. Oh boy


just start by teaching me the ABCD. Why


do I not have to use this word in this


context? I thought you already said he


said no you can't do that. That was He


language precisely say no that one you


said that look why don't we just stick


with the emailer that you have already


said why don't we just stick with the


other ones why do we have to he said no


no because that thing that they are


doing there now at that time is what is


in every language but we don't want it


to be in in Hebrew and Greek we want it


to be in English in our mother's tongue


but we don't want it to be but there's


rules there's not rules of English


language there are rules of every


language.


Every language has rules in the voc.


That's why you teach they they teach you


uh lexy structure semantics.


They teach you semantics. They teach you


linguistic. They teach you all of those


things in English language. You will not


just graduate like that without you


being taught other aspects of the


language that is more than subject verb


agreement concord.


They have to teach you things more than


that. I have to teach you more than that


so that you don't just have a secondary


school idea.


Abby so more things are communicated.


So the use of the word spirit


ruak


Psalm 104


are you here?


Psalm 104


verse 1 to4. Bless the Lord, oh my soul,


Lord my God. Thou art very great. Thou


art clothe with honor and majesty. Who


coverth thyself with light as with a


garment. Who stretched out the heavens


like a cotton? It's like a cotton


who lay the beam. So it see is giving


you the setup that it looks like a


house. It looks like a temple. I've told


you before the heavens is like a house.


The earth is also explained like a


house. You must always get that idea.


Who lay the beams of his chamber in the


waters? Who maketh the clouds his


chariots?


Who walketh upon the wings of the wind


that's the word the wings of the wind


roak spirit who maketh his angels spirit


you see that the context there in verse


three so if you were still reading


English where he say upon the wings of


the wind the physical wind the physical


wind that is blowing baba not be that


one we have long in fact psalm 104 has


nothing to do with a natural worldview


context it is set in the supernatural


world every phrase in the context is


dealing with how the God of heaven and


earth functions and does his things.


Amen.


Who cover thyself with light as with a


garment is not that's not


so malakim


in the plural Hebrew word there for


angels because who maketh his angels


because he put s which will be malik in


malac is singular. I am in the Hebrew is


plural but you have it in your uh


concordance if you use interlinears the


strongs for example you just see Malik.


So for uh students of the world teachers


and people who have more love for


theology we go more deeper than just


that because Malik is malakim because


it's not malac because malak is


singular. You said angels so it can't be


malak it has to be malakim but you won't


see it in that concordance except you


have another type are you following


again why am I teaching like this


because uh we are having a bit more


application because I want people who


are also learning theology recently in


the ministry also to see how it is done


practically in teaching amen because you


can't teach beyond what you study you


can't communicate beyond what you


Amen. So, so that the Bible school


student also see the context of what we


do when we we don't manipulate meaning


we get the meaning. Amen. Who maketh his


angel spirits? So that's where he now


says who maketh his angels spirits.


And because he puts spirits


ru o u h o t


spirits


wind.


So it's not element of nature or weather


but divine being that he's dealing with.


Did you get it? All right. The same


thing in Psalm 103:20. Bless the Lord,


oh you his angels, you mighty ones who


do his word, obeying the voice of his


word.


So the use of the word minister is used


several times to explain supernatural


being which we'll come to. Another word


for supernatural beings is the word


heavenly ones. Shain heavenly ones.


heavenly ones.


You see that in Deuteronomy chapter 4.


Jonomy chapter 4 and verse


32. For ask now of the days that have


passed, which were before thee, since


the day that God created man upon the


earth. asked from the one side of the


heaven unto the other whether there had


been any such thing as this great thing


is or had been heard like it.


Now that same Deuteronomy chapter 4,


look at verse uh 19.


And lest thou lift up thine eyes into


heaven, and when thou seest the sun, the


moon, and the stars, even all the host


of heaven, shouldest be driven to


worship them, and serve them which the


Lord thy God had divided unto all


nations under the whole heaven. So


notice how we use the word host of


heaven.


Amen. Psalm 89:5-7.


Let the heavens, let the shamayims


praise your wonders, oh Lord, your


faithfulness in the assembly of the holy


ones. For who in the heavens can be


compared to the Lord? Who among the


heavenly beings is like the Lord? A God


greatly to be feared in the council of


the holy ones and awesome above all who


are around him.


Psalm 89:5-7.


So again, observe the use of the word


heavenly ones. The same thing in Job


15:15. Behold, God puts no trust in his


holy ones. That's not human beings.


Supernatural being another word for


nature. And the shamims are not pure in


his sight.


Not pure in his sight. So the use of the


word the heavens are not clean not


physical heaven. No there's


so the impurity of the heavens


is being used to speak of the spiritual


word.


So rebellion has already been found in


them. So they are all not so don't think


that they are all good. They are all for


you. That's what he's simply saying. God


puts no trust in them. So um their


ministry should always be


interpretative. You should interpret it


before you just say anything that is


unseen is of God. No no no no no. There


are also other beings that are deciding


things against God's desire and will


because they have


trying their best to get to God but it


doesn't work to taunt God to tell God


that God will see for trusting man for


saying man is the crowning of his


creation for wanting and loving man so


much so we'll make sure this man


worships idol turns to something else


will be opposed to this man forever


So the heavens are not clean or it's not


all supernatural beings that are


carrying out God's word.


Deuteronomy


32.


Learning something.


Deuteronomy 32.


Verse


8, when the most high divided to the


nations their inheritance, when he


separated the sons of Adam, he said the


bounds of the people are according to


the number of the children of Israel.


Now there was no historical Israel at


this time. So when he said the number of


the children of Israel, if you the


Septuagin doesn't have Israel there


because Israel historically was not even


in existence because Abraham had not


even been called out from his father's


house. How much more to have Israel


after Babel? Israel was not found after


Babel. After Babel is where God calls


Abraham. So when the the translation


because they are always careful of sons


of God. So and they know Israel is also


called sons of God. This is what you


call a mistransation. Just put children


of Israel. But what is in the original


is sons of God. So they interpreted it


contextually to be


Israel because they knew it was talking


about other nations. But that's over


that's why I always tell you that


translations themselves are


interpretation of the Bible. Look at the


pige


look at your


ebo translations of the Bible you will


know that they have modeled up things.


In fact, when I tell you to translate a


word from one language and we move it


from one language to another language,


move it from that language to another


language, you will notice that we lose


the original meaning of the word because


we have moved it to two three languages


and that's also what we have in the


English language is now a fourth


language because Hebrew, Greek, Latin


then we now have English as the fourth


language of the translation that's


already further removed.


Are you following? And before you


demonize versions, Jesus when he walked


the earth had the Septuagen, which is a


version of the Bible as well, the Greek


translation of the Hebrew text. Amen.


So, as long as we are humans, we'll


stick as long as we are on this earth,


we'll stick with translations.


All right?


Hallelujah.


Verse


12. So the Lord alone did lead him and


there was no strange God with him.


That's the word Elohim. He made him ride


on the high priest speaking about Israel


when Jun Then look at verse 17. They


sacrifice unto devils. They sacrifice


unto devils. That's the word shedim.


your sacrifice unto devils


because of the s


you know the Hebrew does not have s


is I am English language is s e s i


teach you that so they sacrifice unto


devils not to god to gods whom they knew


not so it's called those devils to gods


to Elohims


whom they knew not to knew two gods that


came newly up whom your fathers feared


not.


So again back to that judges where he


use the word evil spirit because their


function is contrary because if if you


being evil if you that can be


contradictory so because they having a


contrary work that's why I use evil


angels in that context


so the word heaven heavenly ones


is used to explain supernatural beings.


The same way still in that context use


the word the stars.


The sun, moon, and stars.


The stars.


It's also used to explain supernatural


happenings.


the stars.


Uh more obvious text before we read


Judges. Job 38 and verse 7 or read from


verse um 54.


Where was that when I laid the


foundations of the air declared thunder


understanding? Who had laid the measures


thereof? that knoweth or who has


stretched the line upon where upon are


the foundations thereof fasting or who


laid the cornerstone thereof when the


morning stars sang together and all the


sons of God shouted for joy notice the


word the sons of God shouted for joy or


who shut up the sea with doors when it


break forth as if it had issued


out of the womb this is God showing job


that there's more to what he thinks he


knows there's so many unseen things


about life that he can't figure out. All


right. So it says when the morning stars


the word stars there cob


k o k k e b b b b b b b b b b b b b b b


b b b b b i m


is used for


supernatural beings as well. The same


thing when God told him if not for uh


wrong


use of


uh wrong interpretation when God told


Moses uh Abraham count the stars and we


took it to be uh physical stars. No, it


says so shall your children be. Your


children shall be just like the


supernatural beings because you are


going to the church is just like the


supernatural beings. That was the reason


why Paul uses the very phrases for


supernatural beings to explain the


church because we are a supernatural


assembly though human door on the earth


and just as supernatural beings are


innumerable because it's a supernatural


world and say look and he brought him


and say look into the heavens is not


look at the physical skyro


those things have been taken out of his


context to mean many things today but


that now affects when we now teach


properly like I'm doing right now. It


looks like oh so that stars but that is


the stars though


when you get to Isaiah 14 speaking about


Lucifer say for thou has said in thy


heart I will ascend into heaven I will


exalt my throne above the stars of God.


Which stars be that one? It's not it's


again the word cob. It's not physical


style the stars of God. So notice he


didn't have to give interpretation


because he believes we already know


because stars was part of the Genesis


one language used to depict supernatural


beings as well instead of using sun and


moon they just use the word stars. So


either you use the compound word of


heavenly host or use the singular word


stars not singular sun singular moon.


No. So when you are dealing with an


identification of the mass


the mass of heavenly being the uh


collection you just use stars.


Of course we know this because every


time we want to close the services even


the stars are fighting for us. So even


by now you should be well accustomed


with that phrase.


Hallelujah.


So the use of the word stars.


So sun, moon, and even the stars.


Clear clear.


All right. So the use of the word stars


Then you have it in uh judges as well.


Um


5 verse 20. They fought from heaven. The


stars in their courses fought against


his error. So, so the morning stars, why


are they called morning stars? Because


the ancient men are ancient. They use


the word morning star because the very


first star you see when you wake up in


the morning, the they woke up to see the


the sun, moon and stars. So they use the


word morning stars. Why? Because they


were made before man. Man woke up. They


were before the dawning of man. Man woke


up to see supernatural happenings. God


made heaven before he made earth. God


made supernatural beings before he made


man. They were the assembly. There's


again let us make man in our image. And


he's not sharing creation with them. I


would have left it like that but uh just


for the sake of new faces.


Let us make man in our image. So that


already looks plural. The next verse. So


God created man in his own image not in


their collective image. No, a man is in


the image of God. So in the image of God


created he him. You can't miss grammar.


So the contest situates the plural to


singular. The plural to singular because


he wants you to see then all through


scripture. Not once I'll pay you in


dollars. If you find where there is


another being called creator than


Yahweh. So Yahweh is called creator. In


fact that is the praise for God. He is


called the creator. The creator. the


creator. That is praise for him. That's


how they praise God. And we've read some


of it in Isaiah. Amen. He's called what?


Creator. So another nature another being


word for supernatural being is the word


saints


holy ones


kadoshim


or codes quotesim which of course I


prefer just because we are used to


transliteration


is kadoshim but the direct in Hebrew is


kesh


Q O D E S H I M code


and is used to just explain holy but in


Jeremy 33:2 now it's the English Bible


that has it as sense which why I'm not


very particular with it many times


is the English Bible that has it as


sense there


the BSB translation said, "The Lord came


from Sinai and dawned upon us from Mount


Sia. He shone forth from Mount Par and


he came with my holy ones with flaming


fire at his right hand." So the Lord


came from Sina. He rose from Sia unto


them. He shine forth from Mount Par. He


came with 10,000 of saints. So it gives


you that the wilderness journey was


filled with supernatural encounters that


at different points they could see how


the Lord himself was visibly present


with them and not just visibly present


with them alone but visibly present with


them with his supernatural interage. Oh


boy that's a lot.


Hallelujah.


All right.


He shine forth from man and came with


10,000 of his saints. From his right


hand went a fiery love for them. Yeah,


he loved the people. All his saints are


in thy hand. So use the word sense which


is the word code is the same word in Job


15 verse1 15 behold he put no trust in


his holy ones is the word holy one so


it's the KJV that has it as sense which


is not bad which this is where the


Catholics got it so right in their


archives and encyclopedia they always


use the word they have always known that


correctly that the word sense is used


for angels however Paul uses it for


human beings who are also alive. So we


shouldn't just have it as and not just


for dead departed. No no no no no saints


are poor saints are sick because you see


it when you just do a a lazy search of


the worst saints. They they fed the poor


saints that were in Jerusalem. So they


were alive. They were not obviously


feeding people that don't need food.


Dead people don't need food.


All right. So the use of the word sent


is used a lot in Matthew to Revelation


and you can't be lazy to just say sent


is for only people that are dead. No,


it's not. In fact, that one is not used


at all for them in that regard. Of


course, but they are still called saints


because they were sent on the earth. So


how can they not be sent? But it's not


being dead that made them set. If debt


made them anything, made them


unimportant or and unuseful to us


because they have already the civil


court has already been caught. They have


already


left being physical. They have no


physical engagement with us again.


They cannot be used to carry out God's


work on the earth because they're not on


the earth. Amen.


So if that's when they now have status,


it's of no use. They should have had it


here. All right. So, all of that now


becomes organized religion that creates


order, fear, makes it uh


pump and pageantry. God bless them.


Behold, he put no trust in his sense.


Yet, the heavens are not clean in his


sight.


So, the word sense there


is the same word in Psalm 89 and verse


5.


And the heavens shall praise thy


wonders, oh Lord, thy faithfulness also


in congression of the saints, holy ones.


For who in the heavens, the context


makes it clear that it's not earth


talking about. For who in the heaven can


be compared unto the Lord? Who among the


sons of the mighty? He has just called


those saints sons of the mighty. God's


glory to be feared in the assembly of


the saints to be had the reverence in of


all them that are around about him.


Verse eight. Oh Lord God of hosts who is


a strong Lord. So it's still the same


thing. Now these ones are a bit easier


to see. Daniel chapter 4.


Daniel chapter 4


now uses the word holy ones directly


because of the Aramic translation. It


makes it easy to see. So they couldn't


just do sense. So they left it as holy


ones.


This matters by the decree of the


watchers and the demand by the word of


the holy ones.


Are you seeing it? By the demand of the


holy ones


to the intent that the living may know


that the most high ruleth in the


kingdoms of men and giveth to whooever


he will and setth up over it the bases


of men the holy ones.


Did you get it?


The same thing in Daniel 4:13. And I saw


in the visions of my head upon my bed


and behold a watcher and an holy one. So


why does he use and is to explain that


that watcher is not a human being.


That's why he conjoins it by saying a


watcher even a supernatural being. Why?


Because in the Chaldian world the


Mesopotamian


uh


culture that place where uh that


Chaldian region Babylon where Daniel is


the use of the word watcher is common.


Remember the teacher was teaching a man


that the audience can understand. So we


have to use a human word that they can


understand. So they were human beings


called watchers.


So he's separated so you know that this


is not a human being. A watcher even a


holy one. So people the audience knows


what he's speaking of.


Hallelujah. Just that you have a


watchman


a watcher.


Now the watchers were directly assigned


to the king. more skillful in


assassination and defense. Giving to the


the monarchs to be ever watchful,


attentive and not sleeping. All through


the night they stay awake protecting the


kings and the nobles and they are elite


squad. Today we will say stronger than


the marines, fiercer than the delta


force.


You see all those


so more sophisticated training. Now in


ancient language you will use fiery


language to describe such things. You


will use dragon you make it all


terrifying because you want people to


know say if I say praise somebody now


that you have to use terrifying language


is just to create that awe


allow them that poetic license in their


communication too. Always remember that


they have to communicate for the


audience to get what they are saying.


Amen. So the if you just read Daniel


alone, you see the use of the word holy


one is used a lot


13 times is used in Daniel alone. So


it's a quite a lot of read.


Daniel 4:8, Daniel 4:9, oh beta, master


of the magician. Daniel was called


master of the magician. He senior them.


You didn't hear that? Not that they


worshiping the same god. They deferred


to him because


there are many things this man can do


that we can't do and of which many got


converted to the Lord of which we now


have the historical wise men coming from


those descendants who now worship Yahweh


you can tell all right so again because


we have stars physical stars so we say


we have seen the star in the east it


doesn't allow you to see that they had a


supernatural visitation but because we


want it to be physical


that they were following like this.


But it's okay because they were wise men


astrologers because once you miss the


supernatural worldview of the Bible, you


act like an idiot


in how you read the Bible. And it's


okay. We have all acted like that. You


just make a mess of supernatural


worldview things because they are


writing it as if you are supposed to


understand because you are supposed to


understand if you are used to Genesis to


Malikica. How can you how can physical


staff be following somebody and they now


enter another person house?


So sorry you got it that some people got


that and you're not asking he uh


for we have seen his star in the east.


We have seen his angel the angel of that


because the Lord Jesus had holy angels.


We have seen his star. We have seen his


angels appear to us. That's why they


worshiped him because they know that we


have seen God's angels


in the east not following us step by


step on the road. You are using the


Jesus theme not Bible. That's the same


reason why you had them as theory


because the Bible never mentions theory


just wise men from the east. All right.


So that's a bit of study.


Are we good? Sorry I'm shaking you up a


bit.


Daniel 5:11, there is a man in thy


kingdom in whom is the spirit of the


holy gods. Don't mind them. Holy god.


They use goss. Holy god. No, he's holy


ghost. The spirit of the holy god go.


But you know the people because they


can't lay their hand on Daniel. They


said in the spirit that means is like a


reincarnation of the gods. That's the


phrasing is how they use it there. The


spirit. So when you say oh boy let me


just pause a bit when you say I have the


spirit of God we don't even know what it


means say I have the spirit the man who


plays the oracle does not have the


spirit of those does not have the spirit


of all those things if he have it he


will not be doing all those things he


will he will be have greater operation


you now have say in whom the spirit of


the spirit of god when say I have the


spirit of god you know what you are


saying that means I don't need a temple.


I don't need an external place. I am


temple. I am shrine. I am the house. I


move with. So deity is always present


with me at any time, every time.


I'm always with all that the spirit has.


Then he that is joined to Lord is now


one spirit. Just makes it worse. We have


the spirit of God should have been good.


Now he that is joined to the Lord is one


spirit. So now I'm in an inseparable


union. So I can't tell where I start and


where he starts. Where he stop and where


I stop. We are blended


so much that we are now one spirit in


demonstration.


Ah sir that is the height of possession.


We cannot unmix you and God again.


You are heavily possessed with God. We


can't separate you.


We cannot say let's remove the part that


is human and the part that is God


everything don't join we not know again


which part is God which part is human


which part is he being human which part


is he of um everything go one spirit


amen of course it will not be a reality


because all the the truths of God's word


are not wow wow they are internalized


they are practiced that's Why we take


time to teach God's word because the


truths of God's word are pounded in by


meditation are appropriated by faith


are experienced because it's not a


religion. We can touch and handle it


then it is vital in our living. The


Christian life is made vital by


experiences. I've told you that. So if


you have not touched and tasted it, it


is never real to you. It just look like


his book. But when you touch and handle


our realities, then it is real to you.


Then you have participated in the Holy


Ghost. You have participated a because


you are a partaker of the Holy Ghost.


Then you can ah yeah this thing. Hey,


is that real to you?


There's a man in thy kingdom in whom in


the spirit of the Holy Ghost and in the


days of thy father light and


understanding and wisdom. High see


praise light understanding and with only


one man like the wisdom of the gods


and you you the child of God you believe


you are not wise was found in him. This


pre-reservation of Jesus see praise for


a man. How much more you today in Christ


Jesus was found in him whom the king


Nebuchadnezzar my father


Nebuchadnezzar thy father the king I say


thy father made master of the magicians


astrologers


chaldans and soothsayer he was master


over he made him head over all of them


say so they telling bazar so don't take


this matter


Holy one.


Hallelujah.


So the word holy one, holy one, holy one


like we said is used a lot in the book


of Daniel. Then another word for


supernatural being is the word Elohim.


Elohim.


Eel is the word God. I am is Hebrew. So


Elo is the word God where you are


dealing with all forms.


The the the masculine, the feminine, the


neuter form. So you're just dealing with


all gods. E L is the word God. Eloh is


the word God. Elohim is the word God in


the Hebrew. So Elohim is actually G O D


S but it can also be used as G O D. Why?


Because of the communication. But many


times in order that not to always be


translating E L or E L O A H. They just


do Elohim which is where the Elohim is


from. from that ela. So and all of them


is used in the Bible to explain God or


even supernatural beings. So none of


them will vindicate you. So if you do e


you see it used for Yahweh himself and


also other supernatural beings are also


called Eel. The word Elo is also used


like that.


Amen. So a divine being which is what


the word mean Elohim means a divine


being. divine being a member a resident


of the supernatural world.


So I've I think I've spoken a lot about


divine plurality. Abby. All right. So


So as Christians


we have a monoly faith.


We know that there are many gods but we


only worship one. Abi is different from


where you have uh the idea that there


are no other gods. It's only the Lord


that is God. That's a lie. The Bible


does not does not affirm that insanity.


The Bible affirms that there are many


gods and God made them. Not that they


exist on their own as mythologies would


have where you have many gods existing


and they all fighting. It doesn't that's


not in the Bible. And even Satan knows


very well that they are not doing all of


those fights or dragon or who is the


number one at this five years or at


least 20 years at this 50 years 100


years century. No, the devils know there


is a God and they tremble.


Jesus said to Satan,


"Thou shall not tempt the Lord your


God." And Satan said, "Yes." Didn't say


no, you are not my God. Satan knows he's


God. It's just that yeah just that he


does not follow God's details doesn't


mean that he's not under God are you


following so have proper understanding


of it's not word and was and opposite


God devil you must have no respect which


is God and is God and devil when is God


and devil become worse and opposite even


the devil we say leave me


leave me alone leave me alone don't put


me in that conversationh


Ah


no text in scripture the Satan put


himself in that conversation that is


doing no it's always have you se and


darkness fight go home and perform the


experiment you will not see once you


flip the light switch darkness goes that


is how God and the devil is there's no


god is light in him is no darkness at


all


so Elohim Psalm 82:6 I have said ye are


gods sons of the most high ben Elohim,


sons of the most high. Samuel 2:1, the


word Elohim occurs twice.


So the words 2:1, you see the use of the


word gods, gods there. And like we've


said, the word Elohim is used for uh the


God of the Bible is used for the God and


goddesses of the nation. Judges 11:24.


You see that as well. Judges 11:24, you


see the use of the word Elohim?


Will thou


will not thou possess that which came


thy Elohim giveth thee to possess? So


whomsoever the Lord our God. So he just


use Elohim then uses Elohim again in


verse 24. So it's not confusing because


that one is a is a is a created. So


Yahweh is differentiated from those


other gods by attributes and qualities


that they don't have. They are never


called creator. Yahweh is called the


uncreated creator. That is how it is. He


is called omni potent. The others are


not called omnipotent. They just have


power but they are not


only only God is the only potentate only


that's how the the because of the the


Latin it say use the word potentate so


omni potent so that's where the word is


from where Paul calls God the only


that's Jesus precisely if you say god


god god people always have the idea that


jesus is not god so it was Jesus he was


calling the only potent king of kings


lord of lords the same word used for God


in Genesis to Malachi he calls Jesus


king of kings lord of lords god of gods


so that correct the Jehovah witness idea


that Jesus is not god or any of such


false views because 1:16 says for by him


were all things created that that were


made just like the John 1 vers2 the


argument of oh the verb the part of


speech here oh this word this word but


he say for without him was there


anything made that was made in verse


two. How is that still


a created word? Okay. What about


Colossians 1?


You cannot go so far with


mischievousness to Yeah. Especially when


trying to use the Bible. So especially


when they wrote the Bible verses at the


back


then you not come and be arguing with


people that actually read their Bible.


No, this is not


the case of religion that we are doing


here.


So the gods and goddess of nations are


also called Elohims. Territorial spirits


are also called Elohims. The shedims,


the demons, that's uh


Deuteronomy 21:17. We've read that


already. The spirit of the diseased


people.


1st Samuel 28:13


Samuel is called an Elohim. The same way


God refers to Moses as an Elohim to


Pharaoh. He say


you will be a God to Pharaoh and Aaron


will be thy prophet not that he is an


Elohim. So it's used for humans in that


two sense. Used for humans in the sense


of God saying that they have a a great


operation over and beyond the work of


people who are ultic or follow the


devil. And is also used for the diseased


people who have gone, who have dead, who


have left this world,


physical world, I mean,


but they are still in this world, but


have left the physical world only found


in the unseen world. So they too have


become a member of the unseen world and


no longer a member of the physical world


because they are not physical right now.


Hallelujah.


So it's also still that's why the use of


the word Elohim for them because it's a


place of residence terminology.


Where you are is what we can use to


describe you.


All right. Uh


the angel of the Lord is also called


Elohim. Genesis 35:7. So all right. So


we have those words used to explain.


Then another word for used to explain


the nature is sons of God. Sir, we know


all of this. No, I need to refresh


memory with it because of some of the


things that I intend to say as we


conclude shortly. And also uh because of


the things I intend to say on Sunday so


that I I will not have to say like we


taught last year. So I can say like we


taught in part 11.


Amen. All right. And it doesn't hurt to


get a refresher which you have also


learned some new things too. Okay.


So terms that the uh sons of God


supernatural beings are also called sons


of God.


Sons of God.


Did you get that? So Genesis 6:2,


sons of God, we also saw Job 1.


Job chapter 1 verse 6. Now there was a


day when the sons of God came to present


themselves before the Lord and Satan


came also among them because he's also a


supernatural being.


If you say Satan is also a son of God, h


So you know homalytics matters. So not


that he is not it's just that he's a


dark one a fallen one. All right. So in


the words of those writers


used I try to mimic some of those things


I would have used it but you will now


know the fantasy writers that I like. So


I'll leave it like that. Job 38:7 when


the morning star sang together and all


the sons of God shouted for joy. When


the morning star sang and all the sons


of God use the word sons of God. Now in


the Psalms is used as sons of the mighty


sons of the mighty sons of God is the


same thing


and I've read many of such in the course


of this series. Is that okay? Okay. So,


sons of God, sons of God, language, uh,


terms that describe function.


Let's start with the most obvious one.


Angel N gel is a function terminology.


A N G L is the word messenger. Malak


Malakim is the word messenger.


Now in the ancient world it was used for


people who also were on business journey


or trade mission who were sent like that


because people were on trade missions


um


are like malakims. They are sent to open


up new frontiers. So they are sent. So


in that semitic language it would have


that flow as well.


So it is used for human beings.


It's also used for human beings. Genesis


32 is used for human beings.


Genesis 32:3. And Jacob sent messengers.


Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau


his brother. Now the translators got


this right by using the word messenger


because they don't want you to see it as


angel. But it's the same in the Hebrew


is Malac.


And Jacob sent Malakims.


Malakim sent messengers. And so Jacob


sent Malakims. So messengers. So there


are


there are over 80 references of that


word used to explain human beings.


That was Malikim over 80 reference and


this is me not counting properly. So,


so over 80 references


with the word messenger I mean the


English word messenger over 80 times the


use of the word messenger is the word


malikim and


the word angel itself is also still used


in that regard. The word a NG l is also


used for human beings in the Hebrew text


as well.


So angel


just like the angel of the church of m


the angel of the church of sad is the


angel of the church the angel of the


church angel so it's used for messenger


Paul says you received me as an angel


Paul is not an angel now it's a human


being so the word angel is just of


course today we know very well because


women are called angel


they are not


All right. So I think that should not be


confusing to know that angel can be used


to describe human beings because


all right I think you got that okay so I


don't have to


but the word angel itself


is used in that regard


malac


it's a job description.


It's a job description.


It's a job description. Of course, that


job description, can they be referred to


with the job description? Why not? They


can be referred to with the job


description. Oh, they can be referred to


with the job description. Oh, just like


you can doctor is not the doctor's name,


but you can call him a doctor. But


doctor is a function, but you call him a


doctor. Say engineer engineer is


engineer name. Engineer is a function


but you so there are many function words


that we that we use to identify or name


people. Is that okay? All right. So the


word angel is a function terminology.


Another word is the word minister


not used for a


a music


person or somebody who sings. So I know


that's today say minister this,


minister Abigail,


Minister Dela


send to No, we don't do that here. All


right,


we don't do that. Yeah. No, all those


ones for music. Ah, no. No, no. It's


Let's calm down.


It's the same word uh minister same word


deacon. All right. So Psalm 103 verse


21. Bless ye the Lord all ye his host.


Ye ministers of his that do his


pleasure. So the word ministers in Psalm


104 we read it already. Who make his


angel spirit his ministers a flaming


fire. So they are called ministers.


Are they not all ministering spirits? So


that's a bit easy to see. That is a


function ministering. Why? Because there


are different things that that are being


ministered. Sometimes it is healing,


sometimes it is deliverance. So


ministering spirit they minister. So the


malakims that bring message is not just


vocal as it were. I have come to tell


you it can also be visual in an


appearance and it can also not. The


emphasis is that they have a


communication. They come with a


communication. That's the malakiming


that function. They come with a


communication. So that message must not


always be I. It can also be I see. If


not, you will hinder your tangibility of


supernatural things. If you always want


it to be I can't. What do you have with


IC?


It's not only they used to hear now. You


can also CC. All right. So that because


if in your practice you always have I


against and over I see you will never


see because you are doing this versus


this this away from this no do


everything


I hear I see is that okay so they are in


service of God attending to the service


of God and you see that idea in Daniel


7:10 where


because Daniel is one of the loudest


persons also like Job that knows a lot


about the unseen world and write a lot


about it. A fiery stream issued and came


forth from before him. Thousands


thousands ministered unto him. That's


the same word used to explain function


that they are ministers.


Did you get it? All right. They are


ministers.


Set ministers.


Ministers. Ministers.


So you see the idea of ministering


thousands thousands ministered unto him.


Ministered.


Now the idea of that word why it is used


for supernatural beings easily is


because of priesthood function because


we understand that the priest serves.


Supernatural beings also serve. They


have uh the language is nuanced in that


manner to show that they serve. So it's


more tilted in that area to see that


they serve


and in the second temple Judaism that


period between Malachi and Matthew the


it was a common name used to explain


supernatural beings ministers.


So another function terminology are you


here another function technology is the


word host. Now this one is a bit easy


everybody knows this one host. This is


the one that has to do with power.


For who is the king of glory? The Lord


of hosts. He is the king of glory.


Though and host should encamp against


me. My heart shall not fear. Though war


should rise against me, in this will I


be confident. One thing of the Lord. So


use the word host. So you know that is


military. Abby. Though a host an


encampment.


So the Lord of hosts, host, host, host,


host, h o s t host.


But in Psalm 103, we read it already.


Bless ye the Lord. All ye his host.


Notice is different from just saying God


of host using to talk about God. Now he


calls the supernatural being host


because that's function. Host the


military. It's a military terminology


for army. The the entology of the word


is deals with that which goes forth. It


deal with an organized mass. M A S. So


it's used for that which goes forth. So


an army is also proceeds like that


because it's militarized. So there's a


warfare, there's a matching to it,


there's a service to it, there's a


campaign to it, there's a going out to


war. So he uses that word host. The same


idea where that angel with a drawn out


sword which is the Malak Yahweh says I


am captain of the host. So there for


military function captain of the host. H


O S T host.


So bless ye the Lord all ye his host.


Did you get it?


All right.


So God is surrounded by a heavenly host.


You already saw that in first kings


22:19


is used collectively for host of heaven.


But however the word host is used


for a military function.


Another word there are two synonyms for


that. Another word is the word mighty.


Supernatural beings are called mighty


which in the Hebrew will be the word


gibbor. And in the plural will be


gibbering. I am. They are called mighty


ones.


Mighty ones.


They are called mighty ones.


Much of the use of the word mighty in


the psalms is used in that regard.


The Lord strong and mighty. The Lord


mighty in battle because you are


supposed to be mighty in battle. So


give unto the Lord, oh ye mighty. Give


unto the Lord glory and strength. Psalm


29:1 that's not human being. That's


supernatural being. Oh ye mighty.


Now in the original you have it as sons


of the mighty, sons of God. So mighty.


Oh ye mighty.


So the word mighty there


for lo they lie and wait for my soul.


The mighty are gathered against me. The


word the mighty.


The mighty. The mighty. Psalms uses the


word mighty. A lot. God stands in


congregation of the mighty. Psalm 82:1


stands congression of the mighty. Did


you get it? The mighty. And um sometimes


they use the word mighty as gib of


sometimes in psalms they use it as eel


because they don't just want to say god


for supernatural beings. So mighty


who among the sons of the mighty you see


it mighty.


All right.


So God has mighty acts. So Gibbor,


bless the Lord, oh ye his angels, you


mighty ones. Psalm 103:20. Remember? All


right. So that's another word host. I


think that one is more easy to see.


Another function terminology is the word


watcher.


Watcher.


W A T C H E R. the word watcher.


And I saw in the visions of my head


Daniel 4:13, upon my bed, and behold, a


watcher, an unholy one came down from


heaven. A watcher and a holy one came


down from heaven.


A watcher, he cried aloud. So you see


the this matter is by the decree of the


watchers. Verse 17. And the demand by


the word of the holy ones to the intent


that the living may know that the most


high ruleth in the kingdoms of men and


give it to whomsoever he will and setth


up over it the basis of men. All right?


So the use of the word watcher. Now the


word is aric in origin. The word watcher


is aramic in origin. Remember angels


already have that function of to keep to


keep thee to preserve thee in the way to


keep thee in the way. Remember the word


nat to guard now which you get the word


guardian. However, yes guardian say


guardian spirit is that same framework.


However, the word watcher in that


context in Daniel 4:13, 4:17, 4:23,


you see how he uses that word watcher,


which again is a second temple


literature phrase uh that became more


predominant for the supernatural beings


that they just called them watchers. In


Genesis chapter 6, those sons of God,


they are called watchers. They use those


phrases to describe them because um


of the influence of they have gone to


Babylon, they have gone into exile


several times. So that phrases have


flooded their


vocabulary now. So it's more common to


use the word watcher. But it's still a


function technology used for one who is


awake, attentive,


a watchful one.


A watchful one, that's the word. Uh the


Arcadian arrow means use it to mean be


wakeful.


So it has Aadian roots and in the


Yugaritic it is used for one who


protects. Yugaritic is modern day Syria


today and all of those region. uh so and


that yugaritic culture is prevalent in


that phrase where you have the Iraq Iran


today those regions which is around that


Babylon


Babylon's new name and all of those


places


all around that region so they uses


those that word watcher watcher watcher


watcher so to protect is how it is in


the four cultures all around the Hebrew


people. So the Hebrew culture, the


Ugaritic culture, the Arcadian and even


to the Mesopotamian people have that


context of watcher as a wakeful one, a


watchful one


who protects.


So the Arcadian uh even the Babylonian


mythology which is called the Aalo A K A


L uses the word watchers for


supernatural beings.


So the word watchers.


So I'm just giving you some bit of


context so that you are not wondering


where did they get that from? Why is he


used only in Daniel? Oh, they should


have used it other places. I won't take


it. I won't take it. You're just being


ignorant. There's you not taking your


own ignorance.


The word has another word for it outside


Daniel. But that Daniel word is quite


prevalent in their world view. Nobody's


going to be asking why is the only T


that use the word watcher because that's


the word everybody's familiar with in


that timeline when they have gone into


captivity after Jeremiah and that is a


long time in Israel's history in the


Bible. So nobody remember doc always do


that exes to heronetics the direct


audience it was not you they wrote to


the people they wrote to could not have


been saying we don't know what it means


so when you are going to critique which


we call textual criticism ask


intelligent question don't fool yourself


and be saying I won't take it they use


only they use this word how else is the


word used are you following how else is


the word


So that context where you see this word


watcher here is the same context in that


first kings


22


where I will go because they are


watching over their affairs and instead


of judging properly some don't judge


properly some judge properly instead of


judging properly now be the ones that


are oppressing you instead of helping


you.


So that setup is used


is that same setup that you have in the


he story of the popular phrase today


made popular by the NS people uh Elroy


is that same context of watching is the


same context in Zechariah of the seven


eyes. It's the same context. It's just


different language. So they have it in


different context for more scholastic


study. However, that word watcher is not


being disputed,


which is the reason why I gave it all


historical cultural setup. Nobody, in


fact, if even were to type it in, even


Google knows it better than people that


want to argue. Nobody's going to be


arguing if it's used for super. Are you


following? So, let's not be naive and be


sounding foolish like we don't know


history, we don't have sense and say it


cannot be. Can you call super being


watch? I will not take that. You don't


take it does not mean that it is not it


say I will not take it you can't tell me


that


never like that


so like I told you in the is used for


vigilant watchfulness


from moving to and fro you notice that


all angels have similar functions


however you see that word from toe and


fro. So he now says you be vigilant


because the enemy like a ringing lion


seeking who may devour. So notice in the


Daniel chapter one from going to and fro


has considered myself not go and


consider myself from moving. So that


instead of judging properly those are


part of the fallen god. Those are the


negative watchers. So


that context is in the scriptures. So


vigilant watchfulness


being wakeful and having a guardian role


is the word watcher. So it's also used


for very strong supernatural beings a


bit uh more stronger than those host


because they are also found in the


legislative court because where there is


a need to legislate and say oh what have


we found? We have reports and reasons


why this person should be favored. Those


watchful ones will now those watchers


will now say in observing this brother


for 5 years now I can tell you he


deserve that promotion. So who will go


and cause that promotion to come


speedily


then now nudge the person to come for a


miracle meeting and now attends our own


where the man of God now open his mouth


and speak because nobody have spoken


since the same way we have no this ought


not this woman been this son daughter of


Abraham woman thou are loose from that


because that is again a failure of the


people around not knowing how to be


watchful full. So there are things we


ought to say no this has passed his


boundary this has gone too far is again


that's Psalm 82 divine council setup


that has it because you say this is by


decree of the watchers so you see that


it's they have there are more watchers


in divine council setup meeting because


they have to give report and say oh


that's why it says neither nor power can


bring a report against us


Romans chapter 8


nothing can separate from the love of


God because uh I have this report to say


I have this so it looks accusatory just


like the lawyer there's the one that is


defending there's the one that is


prosecuting


so the defense lawyer the prosecutor are


not the same and in the supernatural


context there's the prosecutor that


saying which can look uh adversarial


which can look like he's the


um the opponent


Which you remember the word Satan is a


function terminology now looks like is


this an evil engine or a good engine.


Why is he talking like this? Because of


no this has gone too far.


Hallelujah.


So that word watcher


did you get it?


Then there's the word mediator. Then


there's the word cherubim and seraphim.


So these are function terminologies


because I want to just rush out of there


quickly. I'll say the rest in passing on


Sunday. Now


we said unseen forces deals with um


the power of God that is resident within


us that we have the spirit of God and


that we so that we have the spirit of


God and that we have spirit beings with


us is on sin forces and in the negative


uh sat the powers of darkness and all


the people who worship them. Abby.


Now, one of the ways we can engage on


sin forces actively is by faith. Is by


faith. By faith. Now, we've said a lot


of things in passing, but the use of the


word faith.


Faith is an action word. Tell your


neighbor faith is an action word.


So, when you say I have faith, we can


see it is not is not washy. Say I have


faith or I have faith. We can see it.


Faith can be seen. What do you do? What


do you do? We can faith can be seen.


That man that they tore the roof and let


down, Jesus saw their faith. Faith can


be not just because your actions,


the tensile nature of faith that we see


in the four gospel. Little faith, great


faith. You say, "No, it's not in the


episodes. Weak faith, great faith, weak


in faith." That's still tensile nature


that you seen that oh it looks like it


can increase it can reduce the use of


those words shows you that it can be


fine our action.


So as much as we want to be pampered


life will break you or kill you if you


continue like that you have to be a bit


strong and dogged when at the face of


the doctor's report it's not a time to


be I thought I was a child of God I


don't understand does life know which


one is child of God or not child of God.


Life does not look at if you are good.


If you are if you have been doing Google


things


because the heavens are not pure


anymore. The order of things are not as


it was made to be. That the entities


that ought to watch purely over all your


good actions are not all in the same


boat and your own actions also


cooperate.


Why they are not even observant as why


do good things happen to bad people? Why


do bad things also happen to good


people? Why do bad things also happen to


bad people and why do good things also


happen to good people? Complete it.


Never say why do bad things happen to


good people. Bad things also happen to


bad people. Didn't you hear of the


mobile they cut his head and cut his


leg? Didn't you hear of the man that


tried to make a whole community still


their transformer and and they saw him


the next day roasted there? Bad things


happen to bad people.


So it's not only bad things happen to


good or good things happen to bad


people. Good things happen to bad


people.


Good things happen to good people. Bad


things happen to bad people. Bad things


to good people. I mean the put it in the


four places. Don't have it only one way


cuz it's not maybe you are 2 years old.


If you live a bit longer, you see that


good things happen to good people too.


People just like does not make news


because planes that land do not make


news. Is the one that crash say there's


a plane crash. What the all the


successful pling? It was not news. Only


on the evil thing happened to people


does it make news. Say do you know do


you know that this do you know that


this? Do you know that? What about all


the good ones? You did not know. So


people are more negative than positive.


Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen.


So faith helps us to be strong with the


power of God.


Faith helps us to be what?


Yeah. Faith helps us to be strong with


the power of God. Faith helps us to be


strong with the power of God.


Romans chapter 4.


Romans chapter 4 and verse 19. And being


not weak in faith, he considered not his


own body now dead when he was about a


100 years old, neither yet the deadness


of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the


promise of God through unbelief but was


strong in faith. You see there are


actions of Abraham that is interpreting


and is calling weak faith and strong in


faith


giving glory to God


and being fully persuaded


because we have Abraham story we have


Ishmael we have Abraham saying in


between that let als be be my childh


except we don't have in Genesis we have


him stagger staggering we have him but


who against whole believes we have him


so where he was weak weak in faith. We


have him where he was strong in faith.


And that switch happened in chapter 17


where he had revelation knowledge where


the angel of the Lord appeared where the


Lord appeared to him and said, "Walk


thou before me and be thou perfect."


That revelation of El Shadai. Revelation


knowledge is faithful. Revelation is how


we have strong faith. did. And that's


the benefit of being in meetings like


this where it's not just I hear God's


word. No, Jesus taught the disciples yet


they were still little in faith, weak in


faith.


But it can be taught little faith, great


faith. And in the in the four gospel


because we have a teaching on dogged in


faith and we did teach that recently in


the in in the cell groups. So it should


still be fresh in your memory. You


notice that many of those little faiths,


you see anxiety, you see fear, you see


doubt,


you see ignorance. Four major symptoms


of little faith in the four gospel.


People in ignorance, little faith.


People in in doubt, in fear, in anxiety


where I don't believe God can take care


of me. They say, "Oh, you of little


faith." Does God not clothe the the the


the grasses?


So you have no faithful provision. When


you were in school, you knew God could


meet your needs. Now you're out of


school. You're you're working now. You


no longer believe God because now your


trust is in money. Your trust is in


mammon. That your trust be not in


riches. In one of our prayer meeting


some time back, we talked about that


Mark chap Matthew chapter uh six


little faith. We should not have little


faith. Amen. So faith can be little, it


can be strong. Jesus say oh you of no


faith


no faith in the so no I can't say I


don't have faith because I have the


faith of the lord Jesus Christ you not


get faith


little faith some Christians have no


faith and that is not because you don't


have the faith of our lord Jesus Christ


is because faith is used in an action


sense because faith is acting on go's


word so we can always see if you have


faith is we're not talking about if you


have the faith of the lord Jesus Christ


we talking about your current action


your friends should be able to tell you


that you have faith. It was those


friends that brought that man that Jesus


saw their faith. Your people around you


can tell if you are in faith. There's a


way you would talk and we can see it.


Your coming when I was a child, I spoke


as a child. I taught as a child. I


understood as a child. It will always


catch up with you. So as in being strong


in the power of God must be strong in


faith. If we are strong in faith, we'll


be strong in the power of God. will be


strong in the power of God. So when


people say, "Ah, I didn't see this thing


or this thing is not real to me." It


can't be real to you now. You that read


your Bible once in a year, you that


never pray, that never study God's word,


you that had never made up your mind


that I will experience this thing that


I'm learning. Some of us made up our


mind, we will experience this thing that


what is in the pages, what is in these


pages must be true in our life.


If God is good, good, powerful, we won't


help him. We we'll put our life on this


book. This is enough. God's word is


enough. And we've seen the results.


Amen. Amen. Hallelujah.


Hallelujah.


Faith is faith. Yes, sir. Faith is


faith. Faith is dogged. All of a sudden,


just now before I was going to leave the


house, I was totally I was okay all


through the day. just few minutes


dressed. I had to take off my clothes


again because I was just all of a sudden


all under the weather. Where did that


just come from? So I had to rest a bit.


I told myself uh uh the all the thought


began to come. This is just true story.


My wife is here. She saw me. She came


upstairs look at me and say I said I'm


still going to go to church. I just all


of a sudden we down. I say I just call


pastor and say just turn a prayer


meeting then pastor glor of them just do


supernatural meeting. But I don't do


that nonsense. I never chickening out. I


never throw in the toy. I never quit. So


I So I put music on that has


supernatural restance


where they are singing about healing. I


spoke to my body. I rebuke this. I know


where this is coming from. But I do not


give it permission. Not even now that


I'm going to preach. And I I uh I asked


the Lord.


I'm going to preach and I ought to go


preach.


I said, "I am your God


for the Lord is your healer." And I got


up, wore my clothes again, and I'm here.


That's faith.


Faith can be seen. I have been moving up


and down.


And I can jump. So don't think that it's


pretends. know it's real s because I


grew up acting in faith.


I grew up acting in faith. I grew up


acting in faith. I've experience faith.


There's no there's nothing I can jump.


I can jump. So don't don't don't feel


for me. That's what I'm trying to tell


you. But it looks how come all of a


sudden they switch not I can understand


the place of the anointing. No, I


started feeling better even as I was


driving down to church.


because I was not going to wait until I


feel better. No, I've spoken. I've


rebuked it and I've because revelation


knowledge is faithful. Immediately that


word because it's more than which Bible


verse you know me I know Bible verses


I do Bible verses for a living which is


Bible verse. So immediately that word


came to me I am the Lord your healer. I


am your God. I knew what that meant. I


wore my clothes back. I say all right


I am your god so this is me just being


vulnerable with you guys as I'm always


that's I always preach in a practical


manner it's you that do yourself if you


are not real because I teach in a real


way so that you have real result because


I have real results


amen


I'm always like this teaching I share


there's nothing I've kept back from you


guys over the years because I want you


to see that this thing pastor is not


just a different human because sometime


people feel like we are just different


human beings we live in a different


world is the same world things get


thrown at us day in day out just some


two weeks ago yeah I told you it looked


like oh that one it was anointing that


kept me


amen


faith is real


I have faith I have faith I have faith I


have faith. Then they tell you you have


three weeks to leave. You say, "Hey, I'm


dead. I'm dead." That's no fate. I use


you say there's nothing like no fate.


Look at the no fate. Now we are seen it.


I'm not giving birth. Then give birth


now.


I'm not giving you never wish to cry.


You don't know what I'm going through.


Never know what you they go through. You


think nobody else has been through it.


My friend, how is knowing what you are


going through going to give you a child?


So if you find out that is something the


natural that your body is in the by


natural means every way even IVF may not


even work for you. We have to cry onto


Yahweh Sabato.


By strength shall no man prevail. God


who created the


the eggs, the the sperm, the ovaries,


the fallopian tube, the vagina. God who


created


every part of the body is well and able


to sustain the body.


[Music]


No creator is without spare parts


and spare parts are brand new.


And if you want the bedroom, he also has


it.


Yeah, that's just for effect. I know


that will get you guys. All right. Amen.


Nothing terrified.


And that's why every once allow me speak


like some punks and junk


come up and say things because sometime


people feel like we have not seen


anything. you how many how old are you?


How many life have you live? Have you


even been using the power of God? Are


you does Satan know you? Who are you to


Satan? Of what use are you to his


kingdom? You even work for him.


Sometimes you have not actively opposed


him now and you you would think that we


will not now have experience. You all of


a suen you now have a greater experience


than we we have. Ah, calm down baba.


Sometimes I'm even attacked because of


you people. I know say that this this


place I pray for so I come while come


meet me.


No, no, not like I'm telling you about


counterattack. Not that I know that the


reason why this thing


who said me I for just leave why I go to


pray for about matter but we can't


chickening out. We can't chickening out.


We can't chickening because sometimes we


have to bind people to ourself


and it's our strength that is carrying


them. We have strength for two because


that is the work of a pastor. Sometimes


you have to I notice the word I didn't


say pray for you have to bind the person


to yourself because so that you not see


that every time Satan the number you are


calling we are seeing two number


who are we going to attack you say


that's no no that's that's not no that's


no that's no that's no that's


can't see because there are times where


we take up people's matter like that.


Amen. Hallelujah. Very very important.


Learning something.


Hallelujah.


So I started very early today to save a


bit of time. So I have 15 more minutes


according to my time.


Amen. That's why I did not do any


salutation. Just went straight to my


message.


I wanted to save time today. All right.


So faith will help us to be strong with


the power of God. Are we good? Faith


will help us to be strong with the power


of God. I've let the cat out of the bag.


So today I had no exaltation for you.


Before I preached say my friends be


strong.


Amen. Yeah. Go down. Go down. Go down


before they sing and make me.


All right. Are you learning something?


Yes sir. Faith can be seen. Yes sir. It


is all over for us in this family.


You speak like a foolish husband.


If you talk that way, you don't come off


as


you guys.


But that's how


that's how people talk. That's how


people talk.


It's all over for us. I I don't talk


like that.


I don't deny facts but I deny his hold


over me.


Yeah. So even this even when my uh even


when my wife asks me why you all holding


your stomach and cringing the way you


are cringing I say I don't feel good at


all


that's say because faith does not deny


it. It simply overrites it but I'll be


fine. I'll deal with it. I'll be fine.


We don't deny we oh we we super import I


don't have to deny that's how I feel but


it's not has no hold over me no there's


nothing there's there is something say


do the scan again you only have 10 scan


I show the same result


they just finish one scan say one that


one now the same thing you go they see s


you have not changed it now


oh boy you didn't get that they just


finished doing his scan you say scan


another one pastor say two scan huh


what is the same thing as you just


finish that scan. You'll see another


one. Amen.


Hallelujah. Praise God. Amen. Amen.


It's very very important. I'm strong in


faith.


Look at the centurion Matthew chapter 8.


I'm a man under authority. I say to one,


go and he goes. Say to another, come and


he comes. I say to one, go and that's


author. And just I've seen no I've not


seen such great faith. That's called


great faith. So it can be seen there's


something he did the something she did


tenacity dogged she refused to quit


called her dog gave her silent treatment


theory things that if they try with


anybody the person will not do again but


the woman was still insisting and I go


back and listen to that teaching on


dogged in faith. Hallelujah. Because


that is why many watchers are not


watchful over your matter because in


your everyday life you live like a jerk.


It's papa that I read that is affecting


me. It will feel a bit late by Sunday to


not be there again. I just saw that


again in the book. Why people act very


very weird.


You get it? Yes sir. Amen.


Hallelujah. Praise God.


So, it's all over for me. Huh?


This one is all over. You just 8 a.m.


9:00 a.m.


Today Today is a useless day at 9. By 9.


Today's a useless day. By 9.


Today's a useless day. By 9. Ah, sorry.


Oh,


your own is useless. My own is not 9:00


a.m. The day is useless. What do we now


say by 4 p.m. They never even start. You


don't. Some people are still sleeping.


They walk in the night. They still


sleeping by 9:00 a.m. You say the day is


useless. Jesus had a bad day. He started


his day bad. He already told him your


your cousin is dead. He withdrew


himself. We There's never a time that we


even offense. We saw it in that place


where they were offended with Jesus.


They told Jesus increase our faith. So


your emotional state can affect your


life or faith. Say how I feel does not


matter. Hey that's why you don't have


faith. So you are in jealousy and envy.


All those things are affecting your life


or faith. You are jealous of people. Say


ah why is this person why? Be genuinely


happy for other persons.


Be genuinely happy for other person's


progress too.


Amen.


Have faith.


So faith can be seen, faith can be used,


and the angels, notice Abra uh uh what's


his name? Elijah's faith. Notice


Elisha's faith. Notice how angels were


released. It takes faith to believe that


fire can come down if I be a man of God.


Let's


faith. That's faith.


That's faith.


That's faith.


H


takes faith to do like this and expect


something. Ah, it takes faith. Faith.


Faith. Faith. Faith.


Show me a man who does not talk. I'll


show you somebody who has little faith,


weak in faith, or no faith at all. Show


me your response in the face of


adversity. And I will show you a man who


has no faith, little faith, weak in


faith.


We can always


share with you that story many years


ago. Our first child the uh did a scan


and they said fibers. So I asked my wife


you will you deal with it or I will deal


with it. She said no deal with it.


Something supposed to make you scared.


We are deciding who will deal with it in


nothing terrified. Nothing should get


you. Nothing wrong in also placing a


call to your pastor. I'm not against


those things. However, don't feel like


he's all over. We don't do that nonsense


here. Then I now come and lay hands.


Look at who I'm laying hands on.


Only God know. Only God know. What kind


What are you doing here? Only God know.


That's not how to receive now. That's


that's not come and spread the spread


the re release of power. No, you have


faith receives from the power of God.


That's why it's called divine healing.


Scientific healing, we swallow


something, we eat something. Faith


healing, you have to believe. If this


man really have power, let them clear


the hospital. If those really have


power, let them clear all the sick in


the sick people in the world. Talk like


you went to school and don't be


disgracing your village people.


Don't be talking foolishly.


If you doctor, why is everybody your


hospital not healed?


Why you not sit down and say if why


people come to church, they not get


healed? Why people go to hospital and


they not get it?


Answer that one and two before we can


start to see how in philosophy there's


the rule of logic. Your quest your logic


is faulty. You're arguing on wrong


premise. The two are not competing.


Number one, except you have a bad pastor


that makes you look like medical science


and the power of God is fighting. They


are not conf competing or conflicting.


is God that created the the doctor that


has the brain to develop the the


pharmacies. It's God that created all of


those people and it's God that gave them


the wisdom. And even if they say it's


not God, it's God that allowed that


invention to work. Amen. And even if we


remove God from the issue, it is helping


humanity. And anything that is helping


humanity, God is for it. Hallelujah.


Say, but that man of God sought the


physician and he died in the Bible. No,


he did not trust God. That's what the


context is saying. Not that because he


sought physician, God killed him. Aba,


calm down. If I ever seek a doctor, God


will kill me. The same reason the other


people don't do blood transfusion is to


be arguing Jesus is God.


That's why people hate some people hate


all this religion. I use religion.


Hallelujah.


Faith is action.


The life of faith is not sense


knowledge. The life of faith is


revelation knowledge.


The life of faith is not sense


knowledge.


It's not sense knowledge. It's not head


knowledge. The life of faith is


revelation.


So you are going under. You see you have


began to fall and you are falling really


well in your business. No. You are you


quiet.


That silence is amen. Oh. No. Now how


can you allow those wrong thoughts? No.


No, I'm not falling and I'll never fall.


Talk.


We are everywhere. No, it's not by


talking. It's by talking.


It's by talking.


Show me a man who had faith in the Bible


that was silent. And I will show you a


man who did not have faith. Nowhere in


the Bible did you see anybody who had


faith, who was not talking, who was not


acting. You say it. No. God has shown me


favor. No, God has shown me kind. You


counteract


speak against that and not always are


you reactionary. Some you are offensive.


We call that speaking distance. So


before the problem came, you started


speaking. You didn't wait until you are


about to be you. No, I'm not terminated.


I'm not I'm I stay in the position. You


have been saying it since.


Amen. Amen.


Faith can be seen. Immediately they told


Jesus


or Gyrus precisely, "Trouble not the


master. Your daughter is dead." Jesus


immediately turned and said, "Fear not."


Jesus immediately turned and said, "Fear


not. Fear not. Fear not. Only believe.


Fear not." And he got there.


Dam say I say arise.


Dam say arise.


We counteract fear.


Every time fear comes, we say no to


fear. We say no to fear. We say no to


fear. We say no to fear. We say yes to


faith. We say no to fear. We say yes to


faith. Yes sir. Say no to fear. Say no


to anxiety. Say no to worry. Yes sir. I


believe God. Remember David said I would


have fented unless I had believed to see


the goodness of God in the land of the


living. I would have fainted. I would


fainted. Remember I gave you that text.


If your strength fail in the day of our


it was weak. That's why you build your


faith. There's nothing like building


your faith in the Bible because we are


in new covenant. Eh


the way you are talking is that not no


faith little faith we can see your


actions what was your response


it's all over for me ah this sickness


shall be the end of me let me prepare to


die oh ah this thing really does not


have cure have you not heard this does


not have any cure no I don't talk like


that no there's cure in go there's no


medical cure there spiritual cure


and I'll go the I'll go the cure of


God's word. I'll go the way of God's


word on this matter. I I'll build up my


faith. So they told Kflow, "You have


cancer." I said, "All right." Afterward,


he locked himself with Gloria Copelan's


messages on healing


until it dawned on him and he went back


do his test and they couldn't find the


cancer again. We should believe God's


word. We should act on God's word. It


may take one month, two months to build


your faith if that's the first time


you're building your faith in the face


of the storm. But always build your


faith before the storm before the issue


comes. Have faith. That's why some of


these things should be experiential. You


have heard some stories here, some


testimonies here. I've seen too many


persons. That thing, that experience is


making you know that no, no, no, not


receive my healing. This thing will


leave my body. You there's a tangibility


Lord, open his eyes that he may see.


That is faith. That revelation brings


instant faith. Revelation knowledge is


food for faith. Once you see it, once


it's clear, say, "No, no, no, no, no.


This is not the end."


Hallelujah.


Now, I have began to speak. Say, "No,


June is a great month for me. I have


several businesses.


I have several businesses. tens of


thousands of dollars, hundreds of


thousands of dollars. I have businesses.


I am doing big businesses. I'm doing big


things in the name of Jesus. Say it.


Say it.


I said it. I I placed a call to somebody


and I told the person, I'll get this


thing at the end of the month. At that


point, I just reduced the account that I


used for all those transfers. It wasn't


even up to 250 and I was making a call.


But that's faith. I tell the person I


I'll do that. We'll start that project.


I start that that you see that's the


life of it. That's the life of it. And I


said to my wife because I always use


that teachable. I told her I said


because I want the thing to work. So now


that I've committed to him, I'm hard on


the result. This thing must work. It's


so hard on my body is why I'm breaking


down. So, but the result must work.


Yeah, I'm hard on the result. I give


110. I give this thing will work. It


will work or it will work. It will work


or it will work. That's the way of


faith. That's the way of faith. That's


the way of power.


What do you believe? Stand on your feet.


What do you believe? What do you say?


So, when you say, "I have faith. I'm


strong with the power of God." You


cannot say you have that without faith.


We end with this reference 1 Corinthians


16 and verse 13. Watch ye stand fast in


faith. Quit you like men. Be strong.


Stand fast in faith. Tell your neighbor


stand fast in faith. Stand fast in


faith. Stand fast in faith. Stand fast


in faith. So when I act in faith, I'll


see the power of God work


in every area of my life. I'll act in


faith. Every area of my life, I'll act


in faith. Every area of my life, I'll


act in faith. Every area of my life,


I'll act in faith. I believe God. I


believe God. Yeah. I Jesus opened to


them the scriptures. Did not our heart


born? That's revelation knowledge.


Revelation knowledge is faithful. Did


not our heart born when I saw it in


God's word that ah


I'm dead to sin. I'm dead to sickness.


Sickness will never have the better.


Will never have the victory over me in


this life. I will live life as if there


is nothing like falling sick. This is 25


years now. Strong in that confession.


Amen. I live in faith. I act in faith.


Just teenager


since teenage days feeding on that


truth. I believe God. My parents don't


even know if I've ever fallen sick since


they knew me. Only when I was a child


because it's good to be strong in faith.


Do the symptoms come? Yes. But nothing


is going to break me over. Nothing is


going to bend me over. No. I believe


God.


Hallelujah.


Even the natural I say it. I have good


relationships. I have great contacts. I


have good connections. Say it. I'm


always jamming bad people. No, I don't


talk like that. I have great clients,


great customers in the name of Jesus.


I'm always having good report with my


customers. I'm always delivering well.


I'm wise. I'm full of wisdom. I'm full


of direction. I get to saying it. I'm


not confused.


I know the way.


You say it.


Internalize it. Faith.


Faith always gets the job done. Always


gets the job done.


Always gets the job done.


Lift your hands and pray in the Holy


Ghost. Faith always gets the job done.