Father, in the name of your Son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for another time to advance in our study and learning. In your word and at your word. We ask this morning that you flood our understanding with yours. All questions are answered, all doubts dissolved, and everything that looks like a myth or a mystery in our minds unraveled by the power of the Holy Spirit together as a church of Jesus Christ, your Son, even as he sees us in him. This thought is glorified as we're edified and built up by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside the body of Christ and those who hear us. Amen. Let's have a seat. Second Timothy, chapter three and 15. Did I say 15 again? 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness.

Now remember I did mention that because Scripture says the Old Testament books that the prophecies about Jesus are much more. The prophecies of the Old Testament about Jesus are much more in patterns than in the Doth say at the Lord moment. Remember that in John 5:45. Let's start from 39. He says, Search the Scriptures for the day you think you have eternal life, that they will testify of me. You will not come to me, they will have life. What is it that they will testify of me is not really in the prophecies, as it were. It's more in the part. I'm going to try to explain something. Maybe we'll go on Sunday service.

How that, you know, if we just backtracked a bit in the Matthew 24 narrative of the prophecies of Jesus or the things just said about the eternal end of the world, just backtracked a bit and read the same things on the lips of the prophets of the Old Testament. And they came to pass. So which means that we can pick the patterns. They came to pass right then even before the certain things that he said in Matthew 24 that came to pass that had been prophesied before, and they came to pass before he came, and they also came to pass after, which is there are prophecies that are picked also in patterns, you know. So I mean, so that further, should I say, buttresses the fact that we must read backwards to understand Bible doctrine.

We must read backwards so it says the given expression of God's pointing for doctrine, reproof, correction to the righteousness. And we said that. Which means that what Paul is writing is from the Scriptures. The context of his letters will be the Old Testament book. So our question has been, does the New Testament retain the context of the Old, the grammar stuff, because it's transliterated or translated from the Hebrew to the Greek. The culture. No, the culture is Old Testament. It will pass away just like God circumcises. But he doesn't use the foreskin of the male. But the first king of the male was used in the Old Testament books as Old Testament. But circumcision is of the heart. And it didn't start with New Testament books because in Jeremiah chapter 30, verse 5. Let me just see that.

You will see that circumcision also mentioned Jeremiah 13 and verse 5 and 6 will circumcise your heart. So circumcision cultural pass away. Circumcision doctrine eternal, you know. So those are the Old and New Testament explanations. It's not, it's not in the books. It's in the words. It's in the context of what was being said or let's say the messenger. I would like to put it like this. I may change it also that the Old Testament part of the Old Testament. Oh, come on. The Old Testament part of the Old Testament books is the messenger of the message, which means the cultural context that was used. But the message remains the same. So we said therefore that. Do we? What then does it retain? It retains theology.

The theology will not change such that the instructions in the New Testament books by the authors of the epistles are taken directly from the lips or the writings of the Old Testament authors. So the instructions don't change. I reiterate some things like I said at the World Changers Conference, the notes I gave us. So we said that the use of the term New Testament is found and rested on the very text of the Old Testament books. Jeremiah 31 from 31 to 34. Paul definitely used Exodus and Jeremiah in Second Corinthians chapter 3 when he was talking about the New Testament. Which means the books can't be Old Testament. If the understanding of the New Testament is found in the Jewish Scriptures. We're going to. If I'm going to change the meaning today, I might not be exactly precise.

And I'm going to rename the Old Testament. I'll just call it Hebrew Scriptures. What I'm going to. The distinction for me will be language and culture, the Hebrew Scriptures and then the New Testament will be Greek Scriptures of God's Word. Is that clear? The Hebrew Scriptures of God's Word. The Hebrew writings of God's Word, then the Greek writings of God Word. So I would rather see them as translations primarily and translations rather than alterations. I mean, this is just me, you know, in the way I would look at them. So this calls for critical review. The grouping of Old and New Testament would be needless if this dichotomy did not exist. So therefore, the grammatical context is what might change. Because in this instance we'll be interpreting through the eyes of another culture.

Therefore, let me just say this quickly and move, you know, I've taught you this far, just going over those notes, the inability. I said what's most critical here. The inability to fixate our Christology beyond a fulfillment of prophecies of the Hebrew Scriptures and the Old Testament or very weakly as types and shadows gives us many problems. Which means that when we start talking about Jesus as just a promise from the Old Testament, we're going to have a lot of problems. And the New Testament is validated by the Old Testament. And we begin to have problems like who is Jesus? Do you prefer God to Jesus or Jesus to God? And all those queries come up again because we don't know which context goes away. So I'll say it like this, that we must therefore read the Old Testament like the early church read it.

And they read it as their only, pardon my bad grammar, their only God's word. That's how they read it, as their only God's word. They didn't read it like there was something else they should read. That was all that they read. So that's why we came up with the concept of identification unifiers, which we have not even scratched the surface yet. We are looking at. We are still studying identical unifiers from the Old and New Testament. We are yet to look at it in our world today. And I believe in this series we might just move a bit further that. Okay, how do I. Something happened, something was during 2000 years ago. How is it God's word to me today? When the language has changed, the culture has changed, just like the Old Testament books. How does it apply?

So look at the unifiers in our world. So we said that the supernatural worldview of the Old Testament authors was written by the New Testament authors, which means that worldview does not change. Look at the concept of the tithe. The tithe is a Chaldean culture, which. And it's not just a Chaldean culture. Anyway, if you come to Africa, I know something in native custom of many African cultures, particularly Nigeria, where if you. When. I mean, the first time you work. I remember my dad said this one and I was looking at him, he said, when did you collect your first salary? I said, well, I told him then I think it was not necessary salary. Then he said, oh, where do you make your first money?

Because naturally, if you make money, you take the first thing you make, you give it to your parents. Who knows that culture? Did you do it? You know it. Just know it. Sense knowledge. Did you apply it? You take the money. You know, some of us will have removed money for many things. Your iPhone, your. They take the. You want to make heaven. So you know, that's our culture. It's not because they read the Bible, it's just that you use it to honor, you know, and, you know, honor people. So you have the 10% too. It's a Chaldean culture. So pay attention here. The New Testament author does not tell you to pay tithes. Oh, no, he doesn't say that. Because if he does that, then a lot of other things will fall in. But that's why we said that.

What is the lesson there? What's the message? I remember something that Ren Chris Okote said years ago, and it really got me thinking. I was somewhere in the middle 90s. He said that in every parable. He said there's fiction faction and the lesson that there's a fiction part, which is mean a story, not necessarily a lie, but it's just facts put up together to present the story. There's a faction which means that you can relate with what is being said. So but you should not be particular about the fiction and fact. Look at what is the message there, you know, and so the lesson of the tithe is that you honor people in authority over your life. You honor, you show honor and respect to the poor, to the strangers, to the widows, and to those who serve. So that's the lesson.

So the New Testament author will not say pay 10% or etc. But the new Testament author uses that same principle of giving an honor. First Timothy 5, 17, 18, those who labor and teach. Of course, in First Corinthians 9, when Paul also talks about taking care of the oxen, he does not care for the oxen. That's not what he's talking about. First Corinthians 9 as well. Then you go to the concept of widows first. Paul gives restriction. 1St Timothy 5 James 1:27 also shows that widows poor the orphans, strangers, Hebrews 13:1 entertain strangers, you know. So you see that the concept, the lesson is there, but the culture is not prominent. Does it make sense? The culture is not there, but the culture was the mode. So what's going on?

Is this somebody now asked me a question, the person looked at me and said the. Then I mean, does it mean that, for example, if God uses the culture of the tithe, okay, which Abraham did by himself, Jacob promised by himself, and then he uses that culture to still communicate the concept of giving, generosity, honor, then does it mean that there was at some point in those cultures a semblance of the worship of God such that it became useful eventually? What is dicey? The truth is humanity, everywhere in humanity there is a thirst for God. That's how God made man. There is a thirst, it's perverted, it's twisted and all of that. So he will, as his custom is, he will use what's available.

And what's available, even if it's a perverse state, you know, becomes eventually, you know, when the power of the spirit gets on those kind of things, it reforms them in such a way that they become beautiful and useful. So yes, different nations at some point will have had that taste of his worship. And it comes to you. So look at it also, because I think it's a critical question because we look at the fact that, okay, if God will use this and use that, and I mean, to be able to use something means that it's close to what you want to see. So did that culture have an origin of the worship of God? Oh, sure, because God made man. And that's important because he made man. And this is what defeats theory of the tulip, the total deprivation concept of the scalping.

I said, no, there's nothing good in man. There's nothing good that there's nothing good in man. And then you look at the fact that God used. And I told someone, I said, the accommodation principle of the Old Testament, where God permits, right, defeats the thinking that there's nothing good in man. Because all we read in the Old Testament will be God's accommodation of human culture, ethos, religion, to bring in his word. So you can't say there's nothing good at all. So that total deprivation concept is dead on arrival because it doesn't sit well with the way scriptures are written anyway. So the supernatural world context of the Old Testament is it retained by the New Testament author? We said yes. And yesterday we looked at who a prophet is. Jeremiah 23.

I didn't read Job 15 and verse 6 and 7 is the man who stands to hear receive from the supernatural world from the host of heaven. So if any man speaks without standing or sitting with or receiving from the host of heaven, that man is a false prophet. But beyond that, it's not about the supernatural alone. It's about the fact that the supernatural here is in the fellowship of God, like Jeremiah 23 that we read yesterday. So if the words. So we said yesterday that the words of Scripture are first of all, what, supernatural, and then conveyed through the human culture. So they are first of all supernatural because the prophets who wrote, or the prophets who are the authors are meant to be conveyors, messengers, interpreters of the supernatural world. So again, we began to look at a few things.

Let me just mention some of them. We said the earth together. Like I said, we are just tidying up things. Let's get back to that. 2Nd Kings 17 were there yesterday, and the lack of reading the Scriptures in its own world is why we just pass some things off. 2Nd Kings 17 I remember one day like that somebody was teaching the output of the spirit. It was 1993. And so he was talking about the. It was a meeting. The teaching was the anointing. So he got to Joel 2. Sorry, sorry, Acts 2. Then he says and talked about, the sun shall be darkened, the moon. Then the way he said it that day, I looked up and he just said, you know, when there's the move of God in the earth, that we will see the signs, even in nature. So I felt, okay.