So when we come to church and we worship God, and we're here hearing his word, and we face one another and take away the barriers of disunity and division, we are restoring the earth to his original state. When we go to preach the gospel, that's what we are doing. When we display the life of God at work, and Jesus says, the meek will inherit the earth. When we walk in the Spirit, we don't put the lust of the flesh. We are putting the earth back to its original cause. Are you following what I'm saying here? Are you listening here? Very well. So Paul now says, look for him we live and move and have our being as certain of your own prophets or poets. Or you have said, for we are his offspring.

For as much as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is unlike unto gold or silver or stone given by a heart and man's device for the times of this ignorance, God Wintert now commands all men everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. That by man whom he had ordained thereof, he had given assurance to all, and that he had raised him from the dead. We're going to see the important of the dead as we proceed. So. So Paul is writing for Genesis 11:4 and obviously Romans 32, verse 8 and 9. That's the core of what he's saying there, that you don't build for him. You don't.

And I think this is also important, that when you say you are giving to God, I know it's what I give to God. We must understand what it means. We are missing the needs of men whom God has identified with. He does not need anything. Is that very clear? He does not need anything. That in itself is worship. He does not need anything. You are not helping him, you are not assisting him. He does not need anything. So Most High is a term of worship, relative sense, said amongst other gods, because there are other gods, other God, other supernatural beings. And he says, go back to Acts 7. They worship the host of heaven. So does the New Testament writer, does he retain the Old Testament context supernaturally or he does. Acts 7 Again, 42, the host of heaven. Romans 1:24.

God gave them to uncleanness. Romans 1:26 gave them to vile affections. Romans 1:28 gave them to a reprobate mind. So he gave them over. This is the explanation of Genesis 11. He gave them up. And it is not a singular event. Genesis shows patterns. It's a consistent pattern zone 32, 8 and 9, Jeremiah, chapter 4. You see, God gave them over. Exodus 32, he gave them over. It's like, okay, I give you what you want. I give you what you want. You know, we also did this study and we found out that in Exodus 32 to 33, when they started to worship other hosts of heaven and created an effigy, or call it, we call it now, a figurine for them, he said, okay, I will send angel. And Moses said, Moses knew that by sending angel, God is seating Israel like other nations.

Are you following? Let's read. Let's see. You know, we said that in Exodus. I'm talking about in this series, not this morning. Exodus 23, 20 and 21, that I said, I'll send my angel. You know, my name is in him. That's Jesus. You know, we have done that study. Are you here? So that means Jesus, the visible God, was with them in the Exodus. But when they now decided they were going to worship other gods. Exodus 33 we did this again even in fully your blessing in God. The Lord said, verse one Depart and go up hence, and who you are brought up out of the land of Egypt or the land which I swore to the of then he says in 22 I will send angel before thee. I will send angel before thee. Verse 2.

Now you wondered I'll send angel before thee. And I mean, they go before you and all that to go before you. Then the Lord said, look at verse four. No, Mandy put okay, verse seven. Okay. No, Verse four. When the people have these evil tidings, they mourned, that is, when I will send angel desire morning. Why? Because in Exodus 23 and 20 he said, I will send my angel. We have done a study on this already. It's already a series. I will send angel before thee. Then he says, this angel is talking about he says, do not let him obey his voice. He will not. Parallel transgression. For my name is in verse 23, my angel.

I will say that when you look at the grammatical context of that, it's talking about himself, the visible God, the one that Jacob says, my God, the angel, right? Are you Here in Genesis 48 My God, the angel. So they knew this is God. This is God. And we have done this study also to see that when Joshua referred to that angel, he said, it's Yahweh himself. So now that they have decided to worship other gods, now he says, I will send angel. Because if you pay attention, you know that this is a different supernatural being. Send angel is exactly what happened in Genesis 11. Give them over to other hosts of heaven. And Romans 2, 8, 9. So as soon as he said that, Moses now said to him, he said, lord. He began to intercede.

Then he said about that in verse 12 see that thou sayst to me, bring up these people. And thou has not let me know whom thou will send with me. Yet you have said, I know thee by name. You said, you are going to go with us, but that's not what you are doing. And he said to them, he said in verse 15, if your presence does not go with us, don't carry us. What's the distinction? Because that first angel was his presence. Are you here? The second one is that go through that other nation. I'm going to give you over to your own what you want. He said, no, don't do that. So he says, if your President came. I'll go with you. So by most Vascen, I'll go with you. Then in chapter 34, he says, and the Lord passed by.

And he said, the Lord, even the Lord, Gracious mercy, long suffering and kindness. Verse 6. And that's what John says. Full of grace and truth. Are you following this? So, so therefore God abandons people to what they want. So in. In that same full of destiny, God, we said, there is the best of God, remember, there's what he permits. So we have seen from even how he dealt with Israel, that he gave them over to the host of heaven. It's a pattern of scripture that he gives you over. Give. Gave them up. 2Nd Thessalonians 2. And verse 11. This is what is called the wrath of God. Is that okay for this course? Look at it.

It says, and all this disabled unrighteousness in verse 10, that then appears that he receive not the love of truth, that it might be saved for this cause. He says God will send them. That's like the Old Testament, Shalak. He will send them strong delusion that they may believe a lie. Can you see it? Can you see it? And your son was natural beings. He will send them. So you allow. So that they will believe a lie. Deuteronomy, chapter 4, Verse 19. Lest that lift up your eyes to heaven. And when you see the sun and the moon and the stars, even all the hosts of heaven should be driven to worship them and serve them. The Lord thy God has divided to all the nations under the whole heaven. So where does this have appear in New Testament material?

When you read principalities, right? And powers, Is that territorial? It deals with territories and nations. And Colossians 1:15 to 17 says they were made by him, right? And for him thrones, visible, invisible. So what do we have in the nations? Don't forget when I say the nations. Here you are seated like you are ancient Israelite audience. This doesn't apply today. Like that. What did we have in the nations? We have called them angels in modern times who were given charge over other places, other nations to cause men to worship God, to direct their hearts to God. Hebrews 1:14. Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them? Who shall be what? Heirs of salvation. So the very genesis of idol worship is disobedience. And that's where we have idol worship. God gives people over to what they want to serve.

When you see anybody worshiping God outside of Jesus, outside of Yahweh, God, who is Jesus? That's who Jesus is. God has given him over. But I've got whatever this message he says, in him we live who have our being is not far from every one of us. Acts 17, he's not. And we explore much of this as we proceed. So he said Most High is a relative term. A relative term. Let's see whether you are getting in on this. You know, this is seated on high. Look at what Paul says in Ephesus. He says, far above all principalities, power, might and dominion. Is that the most high narrative? Good. So again, where is he saying it? In a genital world, all principalities, power. Mike, it says Nicolas 2 in Philippians 2. Of course, in First Corinthians, where he talks about idols a lot.

And he says this, we are seated far above. When he says far above, it is that Old Testament term of the Most High. Why can we sit amongst the host of heaven? Why can we sit there? Because by identification with humanity, God as a man sit there. And that becomes the access for all believers today. Are you here? Are you here? And this is. We are yet to scratch it. That's why Paul said in Corinthians. What are you talking about? Do you not know that the saints will judge these angels? And that judging is not just to say, okay, you are bad, you are good. No, is that you will sit above, you will exercise authority, you will exercise rulership, as it were, in the supernatural world, through to the natural world.

So the believer's authority of casting out demons to me is a foretaste of God's new worlds. Are you here? Are you here? Now let's look at something very practical. I said I was going to look at this. Look at Mark five. Okay, so I have a note here. It's a question I answered somewhere. And I said, does it not mean we have one deity over every nation? I said, no. Just like the world host of heaven, Seba, so structure. And Paul used principality, power, might and dominion. We have, as it were, over such nations. That was then so supreme deity. We now have less territorial spiritual regions. It therefore means that while we are thinking of governors and councillors and earthly rulers, that is a figure of speech, of real spiritual authority over districts and areas. Are you here? Are you following?

So that means that there's such kind of structure in different parts of the world today. If we have time now, I think we should. In Exodus 12, we saw that Egypt had that kind of structure. And the highest of them was Pharaoh himself, whom he represents. That is why in the Exodus it says, who is like unto thee? Look at Exodus 12:12. Who is like unto thee amongst the gods? Who is like thee? Exodus 12. I'll pass through the land of Egypt this night and smile all the first born land of Egypt, both man and beast. And against all the gods of Egypt, I'll execute judgment. I am the Lord, against all the gods. All the gods. So exodus 15. So there is a supernatural aspect of what went on.

Exodus 15, verse 11. Who is like unto thee, O God, amongst the gods is that most high narrative amongst the gods. Who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders. Who is like you amongst the gods. So most high narrative. Okay, so there's a great set up as a stronghold over a nation, will attract other spirits and functions through. Watch this at times the rulers, the authorities there the ruling actions, culture, habits. Ephesians 2:1:3 explains this. Ephesians 6:12 as well. So anywhere we see common, common culture, habit, portion. We said there's a being mean what you remember that? So that's what happened in Egypt. So the night of the Passover was that clash or to execute. That's why Luke 10:17, when he said they came back and said the demons are servant. I saw Satan fall like lightning.