Psalm 90 and verse 6. Now don't forget that the Septuagint is a Greek translation. So it's a transliteration too. What I'm having here is a translation. Psalm 90 and verse 6. In the morning it flows and goes up, in the evening it cuts down and withered. Verse 6. No, We can look at Psalm 106:1 of Psalm 96, verse 5. For all the gods of the nations are idols. But the LORD made the heavens. All the gods of the nations are idols. Psalm 96. The 7. Psalm 95:5. For all the God of nations are demons, and the Lord made her. They are demons. Deuteronomy 32:17. We've been there earlier. Psalm 106. 36. They served their idols, which were a snare unto them. Psalm 106, 36. They served their camp idols. Isaiah 13, verse 21. Isaiah 13, verse 21.

The wild beasts of the desert lie there. Their houses are full of doleful creatures. The house that dwelleth there, and satires shall dance there. And it goes on. Let me read this from Septuagint for you again. Isaiah 13, Verse 21 1. All right, it says, and wild animals will rest there. The houses will be filled with sound. Sirens will rest there. Sirens will rest there, and divine beings will dance. The word satire is that divine beings will dance also. Called goat demons. And so these are what the New Testament will call unclean spirits. Not because they dirty the place. Unclean spirits means unholy. Right. They are no longer for God. Right. Rebellious. So unclean spirit doesn't mean. So when I get to a place where the gutter is not unclean spirit. Here, unclean spirit basically just means it's no longer serving God.

That's what of kings, Peter. Then let's keep the one for angels. Agelos. Agelos is, like we said, a descriptive term. So when you have angels in the New Testament are not just one being. Angels are the New Testament explaining. Okay, let me show you properly. When you hear angels in New Testament, you can break them down into Prince Pisces. Power, might, dominion and. Yeah, and thrones, authorities. That's what angels will sound. So when Paul says that we shall judge angels First Corinthians 6, 3 and 4, he refers to all those wheels. Colossians 1 Again, 16. Does the New Testament retain the wall of the Old Testament? Is does. And its worldview, principalities, powers, thrones, dominions. Now look at the world principalities. And you have the word Akon A R C H O N is taken from the Hebrew sa f a r a prince.

Daniel 10:13, a prince. Be careful when they call you prince, but the prince of the kingdom of Persia. So you can say principality. Verse 21, Michael your prince. That's not you, Michael or Michael your principality. Then Daniel 12:1, the great prince. You see, Great prince. And that's where you have the word principality. So this is what Paul will have in mind, or had in mind in Romans 8:38 when he says, and persevere neither death nor life, nor angels. Agelas. I'll skip that because we said we've done some definitions of angels or principalities. Notice all powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor heights, nor death, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Again, the question is, does the New Testament author retain the worldview of the Old Testament author? Yes. So he's saying to us here that our redemption and our righteousness has to do or has a contending force of principalities and power. The Prince of the Old Testament. We've been 1st Corinthians 15:24 already. Ephesians 1:21, Ephesians 6:12, Ephesians 3:10, Colossians 1:16, Colossians 2:10. Look at Colossians 2:15 have been spoiled. Principalities and powers. Now principality is a prince. Over eternity, Right. Over a territory. All. All. Which means that in all the world, Jesus in his death and resurrection, dealt with all locations at once. All locations. That's why the Gospel is for all those locations. First Corinthians 2. So the New Testament audience of Paul and the apostles will be reading Daniel when he says principles and power, right? They'll be reading Isaiah, 1st Corinthians 2.

And verse 6. How we speak wisdom among them that are perfect. Not the wisdom of this world, not the princes of this world that come to nothing. Earthly rulers or supernatural. We'll see why they are combined later. Look at verse eight, which none of the princes of this world knew. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Let me show you something so that we will see the intersection too. Acts 4 In Acts 4, when Peter and John were threatened by the elders. Acts 4 in verse 18. Now notice who called them. Verse 15, the council. The council, that is the Jewish leaders. Acts 4:1, the captain of the temple, the Sadducees. Acts 4:1 Acts 4:6, Annas the high priest and Cephas, John and Alexander, the kindred of the high priest.

So these are supposed to be religious authorities. So they threatened them not to not preach the name of Jesus. 21. So when they had further threatened them, they let them, finding nothing how they might punish them because of the people. For all men they will thank God for that which was a miracle. Now, when they reported what the chief priests had said in verse 23, look at the text. They went through O Lord our God. Now, if you are familiar with the Old Testament, O Lord our God, direct Old Testament. Now is that comparative? Huh? Oh, come on. Now, when you say O Lord our God, that's Yahweh among the lords, right? We've done that study already which has made the heavens and the earth. That's Old Testament language. And the sea. And you think they're talking about geographical sea? No.

And all that is in it is this a natural language or supernatural world? Very well. It now says, who by the mouth of your servant David and said that means they saw it directly from the host of darkness and said, why did the Ethan rage even? That's Psalm 2. These are Jews talking to them. And the people imagine a vain thing. That means that they had understood that the nations even outside God's covenant nation need not be natural. So they call those guys Ethan. And they do. That's Old Testament language. While even said the kings of the earth stood up and the rulers were Gathered look at me guys. The people talking about non kings, the kings of the earth. That means the rulers of the powers of darkness. He says and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his anointed.

So which means they saw beyond the natural. So Paul says we wrestle not against person the moment they get into bitterness, frustration. And you say I'm just frustrated, I'm just something. Tell us what said he when he went to India. He said he and his wife Daisy they just, they couldn't. They didn't say they came back to America. They were so distraught. They felt God didn't call them and you know and that really that's supernatural. You just think maybe and you are just. You just find also distractions. You are just upset. You just, you are just and you just think it's natural. No, it's not just upset. Just you know, you fight with yourself. Leader say I don't know must we go? I don't mind you think you are.

He said he just saw William Branham and he just saw the miraculous and said we can do this too. That was all he did. So we're going back hand himself with the word of God and went back because that frustration is supernatural. You live with Joy and Joseph frustrated and he's just like I don't have time again. You are so eager. Peter and John said no this is the rulers of the darkness of this world. Because he threatened them if we see you do said this is supernatural. So just have called the uncle. I was just preaching. The uncle is deputy governor another principality. So uncle said no, nobody can stop you. It's a country. You have your rights. You have your rights. Nobody can just calls the to the general.

So by the time you are done with that one then one day you now goes for one meeting. You just say that's your church. Must you meet. They went by the way of the flesh. That's why I said modernity as good as it is has robbed us of a lot. Many of us don't think our worldview is not supernatural at all. At all. That's why a Christian will marry a non Christian and he will be explaining why in the Old Testament it's called idol worship. Say no. What's idol worship? I say I love somebody say idol worship. No, no I don't believe in that. That's being superstitious. Yeah I understand it's not a born again or she's not a born again. It's also a dance. It's not true. There is also the woman. He and she.

I know she's not, but I just think that somebody fears God and. As after all, it's better than many Christians. I think you have not been attacked. If you go to number 24 5, you don't want to do like that. Go and read it. I won't tell you. Go, go and read it. Whatever you see there, believe it. I won't tell you. What are you talking about? Say no. Somebody called me on the phone and he tried to explain and explain said, look, I know that God has a plan, but can't God just do something? I said we'll do what. So they saw it in a supernatural way. You. Your worldview can't change. If your worldview is not what we are reading, then there's trouble. It's a supernatural world. We wrestle not against flesh and blood.

So don't think that frustration is just because of traffic. There's traffic. How am I feeling this sad? It's just traffic. Lagos traffic. Particularly the one from where you are in the corduroy. Traffic. There's no way out. You just stay. You know, I used to get out of the car and just walk. I probably just move in. I don't work. You don't get just upset then one disciple just calls you sir. I was trying to reach you. I have a question. But I just left you. What kind of person are you asking me again? I mean the one I thought you back later. It's 10 o'. Clock. We wrestled them against misdiagn powers. Sorry, so we have such. There's no denial of such things. Look at Luke 8, Mark 5:7. Sorry, Mark 5:7 and move as quickly as possible.

Notice again, this was in an area. These are the son of Moses. Now when you say Most High. Most High is Old Testament, right? Most High is relative. Now when you use Most High is territorial. Deuteronomy 32, verse 8. I adore thee. By God. It has the word legion. Look at it. Send them out of the country. It's territorial. Out of the country. Look it, Same thing. Torment me not. Son of the Most High. Most High. Elion is used for Yahweh amongst the gods. So these definitely are the Old Testament references to the Elohims. So the New Testament author identified with the world as supernatural. The New Testament author identifies with the world as supernatural. Our idea of it can't change. Except like I mentioned, if our worldview is altered. Let's see the Last 1.

Galatians 4 Even when it comes to doctrine, teaches beliefs, I'm saying stuff like religions. Galatians 4, Three. When were children were bondaged under the elements. What elements? Here is what stoichia s t o I s s t y c h e I a. Now Stoicha is like an astral deity, spiritual beings or something like astrology. About is about astrology, cosmic deities. Now go back a bit. Now why did he say this? Because the context was talking about the Jewish observation of these months and day and years, which comes from the Old Testament. And if you go to Romans chapter four, you noticed that Israel was at stake. Different points shape those deities. So he said, we're under those elements to cheer. Then he says in verse eight, how when you knew not God, you did service unto them, which by nature were no gods.

But now, after you have known God, or rather known of God, how you turn again to the weak and begged elements, whereunto you desire again to be in born. You observe days and months and times and years. These months, times and years. So these are astrological beliefs and practices. Some people just say today, I'm Capricorn. What about Capricorn? Don't be an idiot. A new creature. Okay, be looking at newspaper and say Cancer first. What's Cancer? Today Cancer will fall in love, you lose money. The same people will deny the work of the Holy Ghost, but they'll be looking at vanguard. So today I should be careful, I should not laugh too much. So you have Sochia, 2nd Corinthians 11. I'll start to close. You have doctrines. As from the powers of darkness. In verse three talks about subtility.

And in verse four another gospel, another spirit. But look at verse 15 or verse 13. For as much as there are false apostles, deceitful workers shall come to the apostles of Christ. And no marvel for Satan himself is transformed into angel of light. Is of no great thing, if his ministers also shall minister of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. So he identifies doctrines as also spiritual. First Timothy 4. Very quickly. 3. Sorry. 4. Now the Spirit speaks especially that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils. So we must handle Bible teaching in our life. Seducing spirits seduces every deceptive to deceive. And doctrines of demons them on. So the hold of supernatural beings is not just hold somebody's neck and be twisting it.

You know, of course there are weird things that do happen. It also comes into belief systems, philosophies and that's why we have to be careful of what we read in the media. I for one, I submit that almost non existence is a neutral information. It's almost non existent. I'll be careful what you watch and the things that you read. So the New Testament author, does he retain the worldview of the Old Testament? Yes, he does. So if we are New Testament believers, as we claim to be, our worldview cannot change. For example, when Jesus spoke about love of money and he used mammonias. Mammonias is spiritual, which means an entire system can be built on the supernatural. It will appear just logical. An entire system can be built in that light. So we'll continue there on Friday.

But the truth is the worldview has to be altered. The worldview of being a world person where there's little or no information about spiritual world is extremely anemic. Spiritually speaking, it lacks blood. Mind my grammar. It's ridiculous. From prayer to worship to even what we eat and drink, it's all a part of our worship of God. Bless up.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/