In the first service, we said there is a codified silence because we often have done that before. But I've been careful in the past years now to say, when the New Testament is silent, be silent. So we have the question, was the New Testament really silent? Because to assume this is silent is to think that it was written to you. Now, if the New Testament books was not written or were not written to you, that means that the writer assumes that his audience is known. Now, if I'm talking to a known audience, right, there are assumptions I will make. Look at some things I just said now. I said, we'll talk about it next week. Now, if somebody that I did not intend to listen to, of course, I pray that menu is all over the world. Somebody just said, hey, next week.

Then he now listens to this teaching in 2036. Then he comes here Saturday, which Saturday? This Saturday. He shows up on Saturday, you know, and maybe at that time is a cell group that is meeting here and they are cleaning the place. So he begins to ask for you, say, I'm sorry I said, But he told us, you know, he's assuming I had him in mind. I didn't have you in mind. If you are listening to me right now in 2036, you know, so that writer has the assumption that he knows his audience. Now, if he knows his audience, he will not say everything in a letter. There will be no reason to, you know, you could only write everything in a letter when that is all the communication you have with. Am I making sense here? So where is he silent?

It is an assumption of his that he is the audience is known to him and that their communication is beyond that letter. So it is not strong enough. Which means that if we cannot substantiate a doctrine in the Old Testament, it may be falsehood, it may be total falsehood. That's why over the years, notice I kept making the emphasis that there are things in Romans, not in First Corinthians. Right? There are things, you know, because they were. Most of those letters were subject of fact specific. They were addressing certain issues and they were not common issues. Right. You know, and what is most common? Like I, you know, that I told you what that preacher told me.

And he said to me, an Orthodox retired, he said, what is what if you say she said, I I know you are a Paul person, Pauline person. What is common to Paul's what is really common is unity. That's what is common from Romans to maybe the pastoral letters, even at that I look at to Philemon is unity. Romans 1 Corinthians Something is coming together in Paul's letters, but the issues are very different. So the facts, the subject matters will be different. If you are talking about the gifts of the Spirit, for example, that we call today. And that's why I said it's very dangerous to fix it upon 1 Corinthians 12. And it's very dangerous. We must find its context in the Old Testament. And this is what we have done in our book Characteristics Ministry.

To open it up in the Old Testament and give a wider that narrow thinking possible. Evangelist, master, teacher is so narrow that if you open it up, you are able to see what is common in the body of Christ. Therefore, the codified silence we said is an assumption by the writer of the New Testament, right? That he knows his audience and that audience is familiar with certain other things he has said or taught elsewhere. Now you know, we said the codified language is where the author writes for another book and he summarizes it in words and terms that when you open it up, it opens a new whole world altogether with persons, events, times, places, scenarios.

So therefore a codified language would mean that quotes of the Old Testament in the New Testament are meant to be referenced to go back and read the whole thing. That's Kotrilla. The codified silence is where he's saying nothing. It does not mean he is invalidating, just means he has an assumption that you, right, are his audience or the readers are his audience. Now look at the way we said on Sunday 1st Corinthians 9 and of verse 9 and 10, where Paul was talking about giving to ministers and he used the and he goes to Deuteronomy 25:4. Now you will be bit before those because you wonder why is Paul writing like this? That is not written in the law. Don't model the matter of those that trust the corn. They say, Paul, why are you bringing up taking care of animals?

Look at that assumption. He then said, does he care about oxen? You think he's talking about oxen? Look at that assumption. That means that Abu taught them he knew, just like said, know ye not he knew that they should know how to interpret his anomaly outside the confines of animals and use of farm implements. But you and I will say, Paul, where did you teach us this. The point is, were you in his meetings? No. So just like that, imagine things that surround it. And we said on Sunday that look at the concept of Titan. It's not a false writings. And I will say that again and again, but the Titan is Chaldean. It's within the culture of Abraham before Yahweh called him. So he used it to honor my president. Genesis 14.

So does it mean that this is a very writer is quiet? No, he isn't. He assumes that, you know, you are his audience. So we now looked at Naomi that day and we saw that Paul actually used the same principle for the stranger, the widow, the orphan and those who serve. That all those things were already taken care of in his letters. So if you took care of them letters, then where did he teach it? He was not his direct audience. So let this be clear. No scripture was written to you. So the silence of the author might be a qualified one. Just like I said this morning. Delve into it a bit more. Hope that's a bit clear. Come to me, huh? So which means that when you say, where is silent? Be silent. No, that has a lot of exceptions.

Rather, what we should be particular about, and this is one of the things that we set out to do over the years, is how did the New Testament author interpret the Old Testament? That is what we should be particular about. I will say this to you very easily, that the New Testament author actually covers the epistles that was put together from the four Gospels, actually covers the entire Old Testament. It's just how intelligent we are in how we read them together. So how silent is the New Testament author about the supernatural world? We have said, no, he wasn't silent at all. Look at efficiency. Now, efficiency has a very interesting flow in the use of words, right? Very, very interesting. I think it's one of those books that require a lot of thinking. Look at Ephesians 1. So I'm trying to skip something.

Okay, Ephesians 1. In Paul describing the resurrection of Jesus, He says he was raised, verse 21, far above all principalities, power, might and dominion. We looked at this earlier. And every name that is named, not only in this world, but that which is to come. Now, this means that Paul saw a supernatural view of Jesus resurrection. Now we're going to look at whether the four gospels captures it. It does too, but in a different way. Now I want to read a statement by a man called Walter Wink in his book Naming the Powers. And he said, modern people tend to assume that the ancient people conceived of principalities and powers and believed in them in the same way that we conceive and believe or disbelieve in them.

We think the thought of powers quite literally as a variety of invisible demonic beasts flapping around in the sky, occasionally targeting some luckless mortal with their malignant payload of disease, loss, possession or death. This view of their view finds its way into even the most modern or best of the modern translations of the Bible, where words like spiritual and spirit are taken to mean that non material entities are involved. Therefore, we read ancient accounts of encounters with these powers. Some can only regard them as hallucinations since they have no real physical reference. In short, our eyes and minds are captive to a way of seeing and thinking that can only regard demons or evolving powers as either invisible versions of persons like ourselves or as fantasies similar to dragons or helms or hills. A God that we fix between us and.

And the biblical writers, we use the same words, but project them into a wholly new, different world of meanings. If our goal is to understand the New Testament concept of the powers, we must instead attend carefully to the unique vocabulary and concepts to grasp what they meant by power within their own language and worldview. It's a venture to disbelieve in something that does not exist, but is dangerous and arrogant to disbelieve in something that simply because it exists outside our current or limited categories. This is exactly what I've been saying, that we seem to think that they are stupid, that the way they talk about powers is like floating in the sky. They just go on the streets. And of course some of the movies we watch don't help, but they are very intelligent and we are not smarter as we assume.

If we really are going to understand the Bible, we must think the way they thought and we must not be arrogant. Now look at Paul's explanation of principalities, powers, might and dominion. We're going to just look at something very interesting at it. You know, we said that this is Paul's expansion of host of heaven, right? Are you there? Which is host in Hebrew, which means a structure, Right, Like a military structure. Actually. Now look at elsewhere. He used that word in Ephesians 2 and 2. It says, according to the prince of the power of the air, which is authority, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience. Largely Old Testament language. You know, we said that the Old Testament uses sons for a group, Right? Right. Sons of the prophet, a group. We'll probably look at that tomorrow again.

So you see how he describes human beings and their conduct from a structured authority. Look at verse 10, chapter 3, verse 10. Sorry to be intent now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places italicized by the known, by the Church, the manifold wisdom of God. Chapter 6, verse 12. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the ruler of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high or in the heavens. So you have Paul with that emphasis. Look at Ephesians 4:27. Be ye angry and sin now. Let not your son. I'm reading verse 26. Let not the sun go down upon your rock, neither give place to the devil. The word devil there is a slanderer, somebody who slanders.

Okay, now if you look at the Old Testament language and you discover that the word slander was used In Kanesbania, numbers 13 to 14. It says, you have got an evil report. Devil, evil report. So someone who slanders who. Who speaks down on God's word. That's what he's saying here. And that's not as invisible as we think. So Paul's letters, he says, give no place to the devil or to the slanderer. Whereas in other books of Paul, he mentions these structured beings or structured things. Colossians 1, 15, 16, which we are going to see again. We saw it last week where he says 16. For by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible or invisible. Notice that narrative. Heaven and earth, visible, invisible. Thrones, dominions, principalities, powers. All things were created by him and for him.

Colossians 2:8. In teaching about philosophies, he says, beware of any man's power through philosophy and vain deceit through after the transition of men, the rudiments of the world. And we said that word rudiments with elemental hope. You can remember elemental spirits. So Version says, elemental powers of the. Of the world. Colossians 2:15. It says, in the death of Jesus, he spoiled principalities and powers and made a shoe of them openly triumphing over them in it. So which means again parenthesis, that the New Testament of God does not deny that world. It's a worldview of the New Testament itself. Look at Galatians 1, verse 3 to 4. Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us, for our saints, that he might deliver us from this present evil world. This present evil age.