I will explore the Hebrew word for us later, but let's just stick with Elohim for now makes gods. Now look at 30 wherein the men of Babylon made Succoth the north, the men of Cuth made Nagal, the men of Ammath made Hashemon, the Arvites made Nibaz and Tahatak, the Shepherdites bought their children to fire to Adamalek and Anamalek, the gods of Shavim. Now so notice that there was like something unique to a people worship what they worshipped what they revered. One of the things, one of the ways to identify a supernatural being is something is being revered. Let me tell you one that you may not see quickly self, just half a generation as you will or a place that says, well, whatever you say is right. I mean it's you speak your truth. How do you feel?

You know, one of my studies in human rights, when I saw the depth of human rights and I say it means someone can just wake up and say this is what this right to me begin to worship yourself. Since they made it and called it so, they call it something. It binds them together, you know, that takes us to where now Genesis 11, right? Binds them together. They are just united. You just think alike. The only unity that should happen is to worship Jehovah. Yah, that's the unity he gave. That's the one flesh, one spirit. Anything contrary, you are discerning a worship of an host of the host of heaven. Let's see something quickly. Jeremiah, chapter four. I think I read the last time how the word idols you don't learn was all over New Testament books, huh? We did.

Now we'll take it again. Anyway, before I say I didn't, not today. It says here, take heed therefore, good heed to yourselves, for you saw no manner of submitted on the day that the Lord spake unto you in hob out of the mouth out of the midst of the fire, lest you corrupt yourselves and make you a graven image. The submit of the figure of any figure, likeness of male or female, so which means includes human beings, likeness of any beast that is on the earth, likeness of any wing fowl that flies in the air, likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the sea. Why? Because we know that in Genesis they were what? Indicators of what are you here? Aha. So look at this.

Now it says in verse 19, lest thou lift up your eyes unto heaven. So. Which means that what he's describing here are heavenly things. Are you following this? Are you here? You know, lift up your eyes to heaven doesn't mean to look up. It means to see in the spirit world, lest you lift your eyes to the spirit world. And when you see the sun, the moon and the stars, and all the host of heaven, the Seba Shemayim, he says you should be driven to worship them and serve them, which the Lord thy God are divided to all the nations under the whole heaven, which is Genesis 11. We'll take it again later that where he gave them up and he began to name. They will name it in. In Yahweh, he's the one that gives you his name. They name it.

So he says that nations, geographical areas do have such beings, people in places. Do you notice that? Have you noticed that places unite people? It does, because that is a perversion of the original of the earth. It unites people. Somebody will just leave Nigeria, and then you go to another country. And then somehow it begins to behave like them. You would know when he starts to talk like them, he begins to even like the food that he never liked. Begins to reason and all that and all that, you know, and begins. Begins to affect his thinking. And he says, actually, don't. I don't. I don't believe in this anymore. So why? I don't. I don't believe in prayer like that. I just believe that, you know, he thinks it's a natural phenomenon. It's not.

When we say human beings are a pool of influence, we're not talking naturally alone, right? Man's influence on another man is supernatural. You pick up a habit, you pick up what's going on. So you've seen here that they were in different nations. And we have the major one in the Old Testament is called baal that eventually in the epistles, I mean. So the fourth gospel is called Bezelhub, prince of devils, you know, the baal. BAAL is very prominent in the Old Testament. In fact, many Old Testament authors use the BAAL concept to see how it perverted what God was doing in the earth. We'll get to that as well.

So the New Testament writer, when he uses principalities and powers, he is referring to geography, cosmic geography, like some theologians will say, he's using the cosmic geography or geographical or supernatural things in their different geographies. Let's see, some of Peter says, first meter three. First meter three. And verse 22. Who is gone to heaven is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities, powers being made subject to him. Now, if I break that down, angels there will be hosts of heaven, right? Authorities and power, principalities and power, might and dominion. Peter recognizes that the death of Jesus captured that. So Paul, quick one, pick on the other ones tomorrow. Now is dealing with philosophies, thinking doctrines. Galatians 4. So, you know, imagine if you want. So look at me, guys. If you want to do.

If you want to help, only change the attitude or the attitude generally in life. What will be your first step? Supernatural, right? Right. You pray, so prayer becomes your first step because you know that man is a supernatural. It's a spiritual being. Galatians 4. Now, verse one. Now I say, before we get to verse one, let's let me read verse eight. How when you knew not God, you did service to them, which by nature are no gods. But now, after you have known God, rather known of God, how turn you to the weak and beggarly elements. Where unto you desire again to be in bondage, you observe days and months and times and years. Now some versions have not done us good job there. That word elements in the Greek is the word stoitia S T O I C H E, I A. Right.

Stoichia interestingly used it in verse three. Even when were children were in bondage under the elements of the world. Stoichia, let's view different places where. Where that word is used. Story chair. I saw something that because I checked strongs a few days back, I checked it again. Strongs now gave it different meanings. And I said this is misleading because by the time you see how this word is used, you will come out with no other reason than what we have been saying. Colossians 2:8. Beware lest any man spoil through philosophy and being deceived after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world. Rudiments, not after Christ. So philosophies, rudiments. Colossians 2 that one rudiments is the word story. Cheer again. Colossians 2, 20. Excuse me. Wherefore if you be dead with Christ? From the rudiments of the world.

The word stoichiome is also used. Look at second Peter 3. 10. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise. The elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also, and the works. So he says, there are elements in the heavens to a chair. The works wherein shall be burned up. I've told you that this is not just like when Jesus said the sun, moon and star that has nothing. The elements in the heavens is what host of heaven. Right? Aha. That's not a thinking that one day your son will just become almost blue. I don't mind it become green or something. The star is blue. Verse 12.

Now it says, looking for and hasten unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements to a chair shall melt with fervent heat. The elements. Now Hebrews 5. And verse 12. For the time when you ought to be teachers, you need that one. Teach you again. That was the first stoicher of the oracles of God. First principles. The word there is stoichia. Now, stoicher means an arranged astral order. A non. In fact, it certainly calls it metaphysical order. It's not physical. It's called astral deities. Spiritual beings is used by astrologers, this language. That's why Paul readily talks about months, days and years astrologers. So it points a lot to astrological beliefs and practices. A bit of that we'll get to.

It is in that Matthew 2, the men from the east, when they form, followed the stars. That is a stoichia. A stoichia. So I'm going to take the liberty to read some translations for us. That I put. I just copied them. Some translations of that same phrase. Of that. Those texts that I read earlier on. Colossians 2 and 8. Colossians 2, 8. Okay. New International Version calls it the elemental spiritual forces of this world. Elemental spiritual forces. You look at Jesus. Rudiments of this world. New International Version says the elemental spiritual forces of this world. The new living translation says spiritual powers of this world. Talk about philosophies, though. Spiritual powers of this world. English Standard Version. Elemental spirits of the world. Elemental spirits of the world. Berean Standard Bible says spiritual forces of the world. Spiritual forces of the world.

The Berean Standard Bible. King James. Readiness of the world. See, see Him. Amplified Bible unfortunately just says elementary principles of this world. Too sad. The Old man Christian Standard Bible says elemental forces of the world. American Standard Version Rudiments of the world. God's Word Translation and I noticed that the closer they are to modern translations, they just use very bland language. Elements of this world now, the majority standard Bible calls the spiritual forces of the world. New American Bible Elemental powers of the world. Elemental powers The New Revised Standard Version says elemental spirits of the universe. The world. English Bible Elemental spirits of the world so no doubt these translations were able to bring out the word stoichia in a wider application. Look at verse 20, Colossians 2.

Colossians 2 the new reverse Standard Version says if with Christ you die to the elemental spirits of the universe. The next Bible says the elemental spirits of the world Rudiments Elemental spirits of the world the majority standard Bible says spiritual forces of the world Good News Translation Ruling spirits of the universe so salvation is deliverance from the ruling spirits of the universe. Contemporary English Version Forces of the universe have no power over you. Forces of the universe. Christian Standard Bible Elements of this world Too bland. Okay, I've already read the English Standard Version. Elemental spirits of the world so no doubt the authors of scripture intend that we lead philosophies from a spiritual standpoint. Ideas, traditions that anything that points you away from Christ is supernatural. Anything that points you away from Christ. Look at Galatians 4.

Let's run through that because it's our time. Galatians 4 that verse 9. After you have known God, rather known of God, you turn to the weak, beggarly elements. Stoic chair. I read some versions. Old man Christian Standard Bible says weak, bankrupt Elemental forces. Contemporary English Version says weak and pitiful. Powers. Powers. Good News Translation Weak and pitiful. Ruling spirits. Ruling spirits. Spirits. New Revised Standard Version Weak and beggarly Elemental spirits. So what we are dealing with is not just a thinking pattern. Well, that's the way the guy thinks. That's how we want to think. That's how I want to reason and all that. He says, no, there is a spiritual force that brings forth so philosophies, ideas particularly that deal with a man's worship pattern. His attitude for or against are supernatural in nature. So by now listen to what the core issue is.

By using the word rudiments of the world, Paul brings in the host of heaven narrative. You can break that down into to principalities and powers. So in philosophies, practices, belief systems, we have supernatural context to it. I mentioned the other day that false doctrine teaching of scriptures is equally supernatural. That's not even difficult to see because in Galatians, I mean Genesis chapter three, the first act of the Divine one or divining one, sorry, which is the Nakash is to twist what God has said. As God said, you shall not surely die. So contradiction of who Jesus is a supernatural thing. John says it's the spirit of the Antichrist. So our general approach therefore in ministry when he says wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principles and powers.

In Second Corinthians 4, verse 3, he says, though we walk in the flesh, we war not after the flesh. The weapons of our warfare are not canal, they are not canal means they are spiritual. They are mighty through God to be pulling down strong. I've seen some of our world people which is cool. They say no, warfare is not about evil, it's about thought pattern. Warfare is not about spirits, it's about thought patterns. And I asked them that thought pattern, where did it come from? That thought pattern is from the stool chair. So which means that those spiritual beings that fell from the grace of God, as it were from the purpose of God in earth, they are now running the earth in some areas through philosophies, ideas. When you detect unity and worship or anti worship of God, a supernatural being is descend.

It's not 99%, it's 100%. So we cannot approach it in the flesh. We have to understand. I'm not going to be the core of this. I'm just touching it briefly just to show you that the New Testament offer did not in any way. They did not remove the supernatural war context of scriptures at all. They retained it in all their writings. Continue tomorrow morning at 7.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/