The second one, I've explained it in the spiritual grace, salvation. Those in the days of Noah will refer to human beings now that's the first two. That those people who were disobedient in the days of Noah, Jesus went to hell. When we say hell is not a particular place. Hell just means outside the earth, right? Supernatural world, outside the earth, outside heaven, outside the earth, under the earth. We've done that study already here. So did he descend to that place to preach to them? Like I said, this will leave to us a possibility of an afterlife taste of salvation. But we can debunk it now and pay attention very. Are you here? Aha. So we have three scenarios. Now I know right now and I'm going to tell you. I'm going to confess my sins.

Your mind is already biased because we have done a whole session explaining supernatural beings and his resurrection. So I know what you are thinking about. But look at the death of Jesus. Look at the death of Jesus. It was not natural, it was about the Spirit. I know. So I know you are biased. Still remain biased. It's all right. But wait. Whatever this is about what happened from the cross to the throne in the three days. So one did Jesus go to preach to those in the days of Noah who were disobedient? And you know, 1st Peter 3 says the long suffering of God is salvation and etc. Etc. Like that verse 20. Why Abu Kahn and all that? Or was it that?

Now the expression I've given before now and I can go by it again, but because of time in the same first Peter, why is it probable that he's talking about Noah himself in First Peter 1, for example, of course this is like I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to cheat you now. I'm going to. I'm going to do 419 for you. I will say Paul also used the word Christ, comparative with Christ in Romans 10 in Paul's interpretation of Zombiel 30 and it says in verse 6, but the righteousness which is of faith speaks on this wise say not in thy heart who shall ascend to heaven, that is to bring Christ down from above. Now this is Deuteronomy 30, 12, 13. There is no Christ in that text.

He's talking about the Word, the message who shall descend to the deep, that is to bring up Christ again from the dead. Again, there is no Christ in that text, but the Word is nigh thee in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of it which you preach. So Paul is equating the message of deliverance given to Israel in Egypt as Christ. Like I said, I'm doing four one night for you. What I mean by that is that I am not using Peter, I'm using Paul. That Paul used Christ to represent an event that was before the cross and involved the word preached. So in 1 Peter 1, Are you learning something?

Like I said, I probably gave you that story of my friend so that you will know one of the things I teach you when I teach in Bible schools. I say that every submission has a consequence. Think about it before you make has a consequence. If you make a statement. That's why you have to be careful in teaching scriptures. Never let anybody drag you into saying something. Make a statement, yes or no? There's no yes or no. Are there definite conclusions? Oh sure. But don't do yes or no. You must be patient enough to explain some things. Don't everybody drag you. Say yes or no. Are you saying yes or now?

First Peter 1, verse 10, of which the province have inquired and certainly whoops, prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ. Now the same Peter now says, the spirit of Christ which was in them, this signified what he testified beforehand, the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. Now he said that those prophets, right in their words, had the spirit of Christ. So this submission can easily lead us to that conclusion that 1 Peter 3:19 was lower. Let me see how we are following this. Like I said, there's already an explanation. Come on, let me show you. Are you getting this already expression in so good salvation? But where the challenge is that the term spirit in prison is used for something else.

That is where the challenge is 1st Peter 3:19. Is it a reference to the days of Noah? Like the men you know, the days of Noah had this global. Now global in Bible just means corporate global rebellion. And as it were Genesis 6, 8 and 9, Noah was singled out, of course his family by association, part of those who were rescued by the ark or the temple of God. Sorry, but the challenge is the term spirit in prison. Now like I said, I deliberately gave you a background of the death of Jesus before we go to this point.

Now in second Peter 2, so that you know the sequence, Peter says in verse four, God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them to Tartarus, that's hell and delivered them to the chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment and spared not the old world, but saved Noah. Are you following saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in flood upon the world of the ungodly now, can we see a comparison? Huh? Please talk to me. Now, the emphasis in second Peter were the angels that sinned. Is that Genesis 6, the sons of God who went to the daughters of men. Now, that's another controversial area where people believe it's the sons of Saint. I think it's a ridiculous argument. I had a man like that. We talked for almost like five days on it last year.

He just said, well, I just think that this is very clear. There's no. Jesus said that angels don't marry and not give you marriage and all that. And I said, well, what Jesus was saying doesn't answer what I just said here, because it's clear that Genesis 6 from the septic are the sons of God and the sons of God. There's angels in that narrative. So if the Septuagint uses angels, I can read that to you again. And we've done this before, that the Septuagint kept using angels and sons of God together, Remember? Okay, it says in verse two, it happened that when humans began to become numerous upon the earth and they had daughters, the angels of God having seen the daughters of human. This is Septuagint, the Bible Peter most likely used.

They were beautiful, took for themselves women from home, they picked up. The Lord God said, my birth will certainly not reside in these humans for very long because they are flesh, but their days shall be 120 years. Now, Giants were upon the earth in those days and after that whenever the sons of God. So he used sons of God for the same angels, which is very consistent with the Greek tradition of the Old Testament. So we're left with something that 1 Peter 3 definitely was talking about, the time of Noah. Whether it's an allusion or not is a bit tricky because in second Peter 2 now talks about Noah again in the same breath. Are you following this? In the same breath, they were forced to think or rethink that text, not necessarily come to an eventual conclusion.

But we think now, how do we solve these textual issues? The first thing is to sit where the audience sat. So I'll sit where they sat. Why did Peter write this letter? If you ask me strangely, this is very funny. What was the. I remember a man, you know, was asking me, very elderly theologians, probably in the ministry for over 50 years. He now said to me, he said, we're talking about revivals, and I'm still waiting for the day I'm going to explain revivals, not now. And he said to me, he said, chris, what should people call revivals in the pentecostal? World. He says it's rebellion. I said, no. Move of God, move of the Spirit. He said. Wait, I said, you like Paul, I know you are a poor person. Your word is the core thing that Paul taught.

If you look at all Paul's letters, First Corinthians, Second Corinthians, Romans, Ephesians, you look at Colossians and if you stretch it further, you see Paul's letters were always about unity. Unity, he said. Now can you call that the fruit of these revivals? I went numb, says unity. Union of God and mankind. Right. I was critical. Heaven and earth. He will bring everything together. Ephesians 1:10. In Christ Jesus, unity. Now that's a way to read Paul's letters is solving the unity problem. Those of you who have that problem now with get plenty. So what is the context? Why did Peter write these letters? Who was right? What was in their mind? Can we get into their mind? We can. 1 Peter 1:6. Something very consistent wherein you greatly rejoice. Though now for even be you are in heaviness through manifold temptation.

The trial of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found in praise and honors. So one thing is clear, they were going through persecution. Chapter 2, verse 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evil doers, they may by a good works, which they shall behold glorify God. The day of visitation, verse 15, it says so it's the will of God, that with well doing you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. In fact, verse 14. Unto godmothers, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, for the praise of men that do well. Look at verse 18 to 20 servants with subject to your masters, and with all fear.

Now if many Christians today, they judge people, if they read this, particularly those of them who are always attacking the government, if they read this one, they will hate Peter in the midst of opposition. You are telling them to submit. You are telling them to honor the king. Never he will die, you know. He says, look, verse 17. Honor all men. Love the brother of fear. God. Honor the king. He's not the king of kings. Servants you suffer to your masters with all fear. Not only to the good and gentle hey, but to those who are forward. This is thank worthy. If a man for conscience towards God, endure grief suffering wrongfully for the glory. Is it if when you are buffeted for your faults, you shall take it patiently.

But if when you do well and suffer for it, take it personally, this is acceptable to God. For where until were you called? Because Christ also suffered for us, giving us an example that we should follow his full step who did not sin, neither was God found in his mouth he didn't return curse to curse, he didn't do so it was okay. Who then he was reviled not again when he was suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously who his own self bore our sins. So he's given the context of a church in persecution, right? Chapter three, Verse nine Not rendering evil for evil, reigning for reigning, but controversial blessing, knowing that you are there called there unto God, that you shall inherit a blessing.

Verse 13 who is he that will harm you if you be followers of that which is good? 14 But if you suffer for righteousness sake, happy are ye. And be not afraid of their terror neither be troubled. He now says, look, sanctify the Lord God in your heart. Be ready to always give answer to every man ask you for a reason of the who that is in you with meekness and fear having a good conscience whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accused your good conversation in Christ. It is better if the will of God be so that you suffer for well doing, than for evil doing.

Chapter four, Verse one For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, harm yourself likewise with the same mind, for it has somebody in the flesh hath ceased from sin. Verse 4 wherein they think it strange that you run not with them to the same excess of wrath, speaking evil of you. Verse 6 He says, in this course the gospel was supposed to tell them that they might be judged according to the men in the flesh, and live according to God in the spirit.