So we are having a clear suggestion here in Deuteronomy that God gave the nations over to the sons of God. Now, the angels of God, the hosts of heaven, the fellow who spoke to Jesus in Matthew's language and Luke's language, was he a member of the host of heaven? Huh? Was. So this is a clear description of where the power is from Genesis 11. And the whole earth was of one language and of one speech. Verse one. It came to pass as they journeyed from the east, and they found a plain in the land of Shina, and they dwelt there. They said to one another, go to, let us make brick and burn them down thoroughly. And they are big for stone, and slime hardly for mortar.

And they said, go to, let us build us a city and a tower, which top may reach unto heaven. Let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the earth. Earth. So and the Lord came down to see the city and the tower with the children of men building. And the Lord said, behold, the people is one, and they have one language. And this they begin to do. And now nothing will change from them which they have imagined to do. Go to verse seven. Let us go down. And they are confounding language, that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from ends upon the face of all the earth, and they left off to build the city. Now watch. This therefore is the name of it called Babel.

This is where we have the word Babylon. It just means things are scattered because the Lord did there confounded language of all the earth, and from hence did the Lord scattered them abroad upon all the face of the earth. This is the this is the language of Israel. 32 And in Romans, chapter 1, Paul, just before we got that, Romans 13. Says in verse 18 for the wrath of God. That's how it starts. The wrath of God is revealed for heaven against all ungodliness, unrighteousness of men who hold the truth of unrighteousness, of the truth and unrighteousness. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it unto them. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen.

Look at the word invisible things being understood by the things that are made. Which means we have a heaven side. Remember that it says even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. Are we back? Genesis 11. Huh? Good.

And their foolish heart was darkened, professed themselves to be wise to make him fool, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, to birds, to four footed beasts, and creeping things, wherefore God also watches, gave them up to uncleanness, to the loss of their own heart, to be some of their own bodies between themselves, which in the truth of God him to a lie and worship and serve the Creator more than the Creator, which is blessed forever. Amen. So God gave them up. And that's the same word we saw in Luke 4 has been given to me. Okay. He gave them up. And 26. For this cause God gave them up to vile affections. For even their women did change their natural use into that which is against nature.

And likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman born in their lust, one towards another. Men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves the commence of the error which was made and even did not to retain God in their knowledge. God gave them over. It's so consistent. He gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. So we have where God we said that in fully your destiny, God where God gave them over to what they wanted. So in Genesis 11, that Babylon is what man wanted and God gave him. Chapter 32 where it says he gave to the angels of God, the sons of God, the nations of the earth. That gives us the background of what Satan said through Jesus. And this is from where?

Let me look at Genesis 10. Something is in there. Skipped the origin of kingdoms. Or let's track accurate Genesis 4. Cain, verse 16. Cain went out from the Lord and dwelt in the land of naught on the east of Eden, and came with his wife. And she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city builder the city of the city as a name of his son Enoch, he built a city. Then we can go on and on and maybe a few things. Lamech, verse 19 took two wives. Name of one was Ada or other was Zila. And Ada, sorry, Ada Boh, who was the father of such as dwell in tents and have cattle. His brother's name was Juba, who was the father of them that handled the harp and the organ. You guys have seen should watch this.

So you see where music came from. And Zillariz also brought tubercain, an instructor of every artificial brass and iron. This is weapons of war. And sister of Tobacain was. Now why are they doing this detail for you? And Lamech said to his wife, so you can see really you find where weapons of warfare came from that Cain generation. Okay, so Genesis and chapter 10. 10. So this is the first man who built a city. Genesis chapter 10. And verse 8. And cush be that Nimrod, he began to be mighty one in the earth. And we sort out the Gibboriims and the Anakims, that narrative they have nine humans was a mighty altar before the Lord. Wherefore it said, even as Nero the mighty hunter before the Lord. And this is a supernatural being again. And the beginning of this kingdom Was Babel. What?

So we find Kingdom Babel here. That's where kings and kingdoms, when I explain kings, kingdom, city, man made things. So the fact that it's in God's word doesn't mean it's God's will. He gave them over to it. So if you now see, Satan said to Jesus, all the kingdoms were given to me. Now, was it given by man? No. All right, it's given in man's disobedience. That's a better way to look, put in man's disobedience. So Israel was called out, let's say, in Abraham, and you shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, welcomed in, accepted, you know, and all of that in Genesis 12, verse 3, 3 and 4. Psalm82. Quick one. We were there before. Psalm82. God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods.

Again, the argument to suffice is we're talking about earthly rulers or supernatural beings. I'll read this to you from the Septuagint, which is Psalm 81. God stood in the assembly of the gods. In the middle, he judges the gods. Now, maybe I should say this at this point, the Septuagint is an interpretation. It's equally a translation, okay? As much as it has a lot of authority, it is not all authority. Now, where it becomes very useful is because in the time of Jesus was used, because that was basically the language that they spoke. But then we must be careful not to quickly foist on it, as it were. The authority doesn't have. So here God stood in the assembly of the gods. In the middle, he judges the gods. How long will you judge unjustly and take the faces of sinners?

Oh, so we have two schools of thought. These are human judges or human gospel. We have reason to say that because there are times like that human judges were called Elohim. But this doesn't suffice because by saying he stands in the congregation, right, it presupposes a supernatural assembly. Then he says, and of course, it brings in the host of heaven. Language, the most high language. Then he says, here, consider the offer, and the needy vindicate the law low, and the poor deliver the poor, and the needy rescue them from the hand of the sinner. Now, my approach to this is to read it in a more wholesale fashion. That is, earthly rulers are manifestations of supernatural principalities.

So this goes together where God is judging a supernatural being, therefore is passing the judgment because of the manifestation of the things that were done by the earthly rulers. Consider the Orphan and needy vindicated the low and the poor. Deliver the poor and the needy. Rescue them from the hand of sinners. They did not know, nor did they understand. In darkness they passed through all the foundation of the earth were shaken, will be shaken. I have said you are gods. All of you are children of the Most High. The only people called children of the Most High, apart from the angels, of course. Host of heaven will be Israel. And this is not to Israel. And now you die as humans. This is what is the game changer. There as one of the rulers you fall.

Stand up, O God, judge the earth, because you will inherit amongst all the nations. This takes us back to Jeremiah 32 again, verse 7, 8 and 9, and Genesis chapter 11, which means there are beings that God gave in his permission. The nations of the earth too, that did not carry it out well, but why? Same thing as man. Because this shows how God's creatures have a free will. So where did the authority come from? It came from disobedience or came in disobedience. And we said in the other series that there's always second best, right? God has second best. The Old Covenant, where he had to use cultures or religion is the second best. That's not the ultimate destination. Where he gave in, where he told Israel.

We saw that when he left Israel and when they went to worship other gods in Deuteronomy 32, 33 said, I'll give you another angel. And Moses said, no, no. You are the one. You are the one that we want. Which means he gave them a second best second option. When he called all Israel to be priests and he said no, then he called Levi. It's always that narrative in the Old Testament where there's the second best. It's not his ultimate will, but he permits it. And this can therefore safely explain why Satan said, it has been given to me. And so God restores all things to its normalcy in the resurrection of Jesus, where it says, all authority in heaven and earth, he's giving me. And how did that happen? He stripped his parties, power, might and dominion. Colossians 2:15. Are you here?

And so that happened in the territories of the world at once. So therefore there's a New Testament offer. This is where we started this. We're going to be on this for a while. Does he retain the Old Testament content? He does. Why would Paul call Satan the God of this world? 2 Corinthians 4, 3, 4. As blind the minds of them that believe not that retains the Old Testament narrative of the hosts. Of heaven and the gods of the nations. Why would he say that fought with the beast at Ephesus? Because it retains that narrative. Weapons of our warfare are not canal, but mighty through God to the pulling down strongholds. Second Corinthians, chapter 10, verse 3 and 4. Why would he talk about wrestling against principal against flesh and blood? Because you think that the problem you have is natural rulers.

Paul says no is against spiritual wickedness in the high places. The apostles, when they were persecuted by the elders of Israel, said, this is the rulers of the earth. Psalm 2 Supernatural beings are involved here and that must be our approach. Where did they get the authority from? Jesus said, from above. John 18:11, Luke 4, 6. In the temptation of Jesus, Satan said, it's been given to me. So where did it happen? It can't be Genesis chapter three, because it doesn't speak about kingdoms at all. Genesis chapter three. It's therefore traced to. Like I said, the Reformation made us really fixate on Genesis 3 as just the only disobedience. But Genesis is the foundation of the world. And we have Genesis 6, Genesis 11, Genesis 3, Genesis 4.

All of them have a role to play in the conquest of sin in the world and what Jesus did to them. All of them are taken care of in the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus. Are you in church? Okay, so to understand why Paul says raised us far above all principalities, power and might, Paul takes wherever you live in mind, wherever you stay, or wherever you are called to preach or you are called to minister. Maybe we should look at 1st Corinthians 15 again, 1st Corinthians 15 and verse 32. If after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, he says, beasts at Ephesus after the manner of men. Now in 2nd Corinthians and chapter 1 and verse 8, 1st Corinthians 16, 1st Ephesus, verse 8. But I tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.

For a great door, an effectual door, is opened unto me. There are many adversaries, many, many adversaries. And he calls them beasts in Second Corinthians 1, verse 8. For we would not, brethren, have ignorance of Act 7, which came to us in Asia. We are pressed out of measure above strength, insomuch that we despise evil of life. 2 Corinthians 12. One. It is not expedient for me, doubtless to glory I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I knew a man in Christ above 14 years ago. Whether in the body I cannot tell whether out of the body I cannot tell. God knows, for such one caught up to the third heaven. Now he goes on, then talks about his revelation, caught up in paradise.

Then he says in verse seven, unless I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Old Testament language is warfare the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Yet he says, for this thing I besought the Lord thrice, and I might depart from me. He said to me, my grace sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore I will glory in my infirmity, the power Christ rest upon me, wherefore I take pleasure in the pharmacist reproaches, necessity, persecutions, Christ's sake. For when I'm weak, then I am strong. Okay, so you see that Paul identifies the challenges to supernatural things. So New Testament author retains perfectly the Old Testament context of the supernatural world.

And our work is to say is that the. The context of the world? Oh yes. Then we must, at a point in this series which is trusting God will get to that, use the identification unifiers. How? And the only way we can do that safely is to find out how the New Testament writer dealing with the Old Testament. How do we identify supernatural origins in our world today? It's a bit difficult because we are in a very modern world. Everything seems to be explained logically. But that is ridiculous if you think that way. The moment we do that, then the believer's authority becomes totally obliterated in our thinking. We will know what it is. Because the moment the supernatural world is not explained, the believer's authority can never be understood because it can only be related in that order.

I'll see you in 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/