I told him, I said, where this study is going, you're going to be in trouble. He said no, that he feels that you know you should. I said no, you don't study from doubts, you study from faith. This way I didn't answer from faith. I believe God. So you're going to be in trouble. Because we also know that the Prince of Paul there uses knowledge. Uses knowledge and one of the traits of the prison thou we see in the Scripture is lack of control. And that lack of control is the control. That lack of control is the control because you are being controlled by not having control. Are you here? All right, let's go to the Old Testament. We see this prominent. Go to Exodus. I'll put the rest later. Exodus 12. Okay, let's backtrack a bit. Jerusalem, chapter four.

Move as fast as possible. And verse 18 or 19. When you lift up your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun, moon and stars, and the host of heaven shall be driven to worship them and serve them. Would the Lord thy God has not divided unto all the nations under the whole heaven. So he says, the nations are divided to beings. Joel 32 and verse 8. When the most High divided, He says here again to the nations their inheritance. When he separated the sons of Adam, he said, the bounds of people according to the number of the sons of God. Done that study over and over again. So rebellion. Go to Isaiah 14 against God and his Word is an institutionalized action and is from an invisible world.

That was saying on Sunday that to start to address sin from just a sociological point of view, no sin is osny supernatural. It will have a natural expression, but is forced supernatural. Psalm 82, verse 1. God stands in the conviction of the mighty. He judges among the gods. How long will you unjustly and accept the presence of the wicked? You see, the tricky part of this psalm is that you can use it for human judges. You can. And it just bottles what we have said earlier, that it's the visible and the invisible they are using for human authority. How would you judge the nations unjustly? Defend the poor, the fatherless, do justice to the afflicted and needy. Deliver the poor and needy. Get them say, okay, this is about ethnic things. The rule of five. They know not, neither will they understand.

They walk on in darkness. That takes you back to Genesis 1. All the foundations of the earth are out of the course. I have said, you are gods. All of you are children of the Most High. That is host of heaven language. But you shall die like men and fall like one of the princes. Now you can't be saying you can die like men, like. Like talking to a ruler. Of course the man would die like one. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for thou shalt hate us nations. So this combines what we have been saying earlier. There is a visible. Are you here an invisible part of this conversation? Look at Exodus 12. This is the more reason why as individuals, the believers can go into the political world as individuals.

But every attempt to create A political structure from the church will be backsliding. I was talking to a pastor yesterday and we said, look, I was looking at why did the church, particularly Nigeria, Africa, even America. Why are they so engrossed about who is the ruler of their country? Why are they engrossed? Number one is a democracy. And the person answered very well. And that got me thinking. I knew this, but the way he said it's their theology is the way they think and that has to be corrected by the world. Just like John 16 says they will think that they are serving God by killing you. It's a thinking pattern because this structure did not come from God. So trying to own it at any point is all disaster. Can believers go, oh yeah, as individuals.

And that's what we put in our book Faith, Christian faith and Politics. Yes, but we the church must the only we the church is to reach the world with the gospel. That's the only thing the church can do together. Because we have different when it comes to all the ideas, it will be different. It's of the world and that is what it is. Same way we can't have a common profession. Definitely not a common club. That's obvious. You know, there are some clubs came from Genesis 11. Left it out anyway, you know, you can't have that. You can't. So it's a wrong ideology. But this is clear that there's a manifestation in the natural world of the supernatural world. Exodus 12:12. Our pass through the line of Egypt.

This night has smiled all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, against all the gods of Egypt. All the gods of Egypt will I execute the judgment. I am the Lord. Exodus 15:11. So the concept of that firstborn was idol worship. The firstborn there is idol worship. Exodus 15:11 who is like unto thee, O Lord, amongst the gods. Notice how this song of Moses came. Verse 1. I will sing to the Lord gloriously. For the horse and his rider are keep thrown to the sea. Singular. Blessed is my strength and song is because my salvation is my God. I prepare him and appreciation of my Father's God. And I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Pharaoh's chariots and his host as he cast into the sea.

His chosen captains also are drowned in the sea. The depths have covered them. They are drunk. They are sunk into the bottom as a stone. The right hand, O Lord, is become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, as dust in pieces the enemy. The greatness of Thy Excellency has thrown them that rose against thee, that sent forth thy wrath which consumed them as stubble the vast were nostrils, the waters were gathered together, the flood stood upright as a heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea. The enemy said, I will pursue, I will think, I will divide. The squall, my Lord shall satisfy upon them. So there's a singular person. Are you following? And there is also the plural. But he says, thou this blow, that wind, the sea cover them, the sunkers lead in the mighty waters.

Who is like unto you? God, O Lord, amongst the gods, who is like me. So there was the supernatural aspect, just like those wars. Also there's a spiritual warfare in the context of the wars. And just like this instance, we had Pharaoh, all right, and we had the gods of Egypt. So there's a context to, you know, the wars. We'll probably view the others later. So we have the visible and the invisible. That's something that shouldn't be lost. We have the visible and we have the invisible. So the earthly rulers. And let me ask this caveat very seriously. That is not just government that we're referring to. We're referring generally to every spheres of influence, generally. I think I mentioned this last time when the guy said I was going to entertainment. I said, entertainment is not of the devil, right. At all.

It can be good music, good show of talents and art. It can be right. But you must be someone whose mind is renewed. I remember a friend of mine told me this. This was in the university. He went into politics. He went. Went from ministry into politics. I abandoned ministry. So he now said to me, he said, but let me quote him here. He said, look, if you're born again, he's not well, born again. And it's somebody I respect a lot. He said, when he said this, science of order, not believe. He said, you must really believe. He said, it will totally make you think differently. Should I agree that day that to go into such echelons, or let's say dimensions of where people are looking for power and influence, your mind must be sufficiently renewed. So that's why the believer must.

The first of all is supposed to grow, spiritually speaking. You can't think like the world thinks, even though it's the same thing you are doing, you can't think like the world thinks, because nothing came from the devil. Nothing. But is there a perversion? Yes. Is there a slander? Yes. Is there an opposition? Yes. It's at that point that we get involved. So we cannot. Oh, we are not this and this is why a lot of guys were thinking God's way out of it is to pack people out and rapture them. No, that's the way out is that we're going to engage it, right? Engage it. And we engage it with. With soundness of mind. Engagement with soundness of mind is now, today.

Now you can watch a Christian on TV in those days the moment they see you acting is a Christian watching it though they say is this guy really. And you're watching it. Is this guy really a Christian? He started acting on TV and you are watching it. It's not easy for us to watch it and say and you know, you look at it and say okay, when I say I wrote a script, he said, I said it's not a Christian movie. I said why? I said I just write it. I just don't believe you should be doing movies for the word of God. But it's not wrong for people do it. So can I do better movies? But you must engage well, right? Engage it properly.

That's why having a church and being taught the word of God is a prerequisite to engaging the world. Well, this earth does not belong to the devil. Is that clear? The system could be manipulated by the devil and he only does it through men. There is no greater manifestation of the devil like through men. But we know that we have the visible and the non visible. So a man who is spiritual is the one who. So you don't look at things anyhow. That's why we say when we talk about Satan plays a long game. People think that you are just being superstitious. When I said this, I'm going to repeat it. You know me and your past. When I said it, I said that protest that took place in 2020 I said as sincere as emotives were, it was taking over.

I and this is not a seed of God. No, Nigeria has to change. A friend of mine was in church so he prophesied the year before because we are carried away. Anything happen on social media they say yeah, this is what's going on. I saw people marking marching during riots and say they are praying in tongues thinking over Nigeria, you better interpret it. So don't worry, that's how the friend of mine was prophetic. He did his own prophecy failure. So the people in the ministry were so eager they just took their prophecy and added it to the nationwide rebellion. I said what's up? I said remove it now. I said the end result. You look like I need to Result, he removed it. I said, go and read the Bible. I put an article out.

Somebody came up and told me, I know it's the Bible. Is this verse of teaching the Bible said, but I will say we have to stick to the scriptures of Diamond. I say, I have to. And you have to. We may not like it. You may not like it. No. Someone told me, said, well, no, I'm going. If the church, I will abandon Christianity. I said, no, we have more people. If you abandon it, what are. Who are you punishing? Think God will start crying you abandon Christianity? I said, no. So many times we are not sensitive. We just feel like, no, that's what. And particularly this time, that you are just in one place and like 1 million people are saying the same thing. So you think that's God. Everybody's saying everybody now. Everybody. This person, this person, that person.

That's how people run mad. Your anchor is the word of God. Is that clear? Aha. And never I told someone, I said, there is nowhere you can assert God in rebellion. How do you know the thing and I'll quote on this one for this session. When they said, they brought you as the pilot, this will amuse you. They could not say he did anything wrong. Listen very well. You know, he had other guys known factors that they crucified with him. Their own was that they were insurrectionists. They spoke against the Lula, they had to lie against Jesus eventually. What did they choose? That he said, he's the son of God, I can't say anything. They said, well, in our own laws, this is blasphemy. So I said, okay. He said he washed his hands.

Do you know that Luke was able to say that was the same case with Paul? That there was. You could not say that he's rosing the people that when he spoke, people were now moving against government? No, nothing at all. This should make us think and think very well. I just said something. I'm going to finish on this. Don't say, what about Moses? Moses, we just saw it. It was a supernatural warfare. It was clear. And if you want to do Moses own, let us see plagues, right? They didn't go on the street. I will carry placard. They took on the gods of the land. When you see signs, somebody will tell you to go. Not when you are writing article and do a retreat. Retreat aggressively. No. What did Elijah do? He said, if Yahweh is gone, let us settle the matter.

It's not. They didn't go to the Senate House or Senate to go and burn it down. That was not what they did though. If you are going to take that route, it's by prayer, right? And fasting. But you can't pray and fast and bring out placard, right? The next is you are going to preach the gospel. They are going to heal the sick. This is an inconvenient truth, right? Because you are preachers. I was in law school. As I said this was somebody. He said, I didn't want to hear it for years. I told him, I said, martin Luther King. I said, well, did he tell you that was God's call upon his life? Someone said, what do you mean? Are you saying that he cannot. Human rights.

I said, if you go to America today, the racism between blacks and others is worse than white and black. I said, racism is of the heart. It can only be cured with the gospel. And not just the gospel to live by it. Because you can say the world no more. And in your heart is me and you no more. That's the way you can get it. But if we want to use the world's methods, we'll get what the world wants. I'll see you in 10 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/