At what point he just said, the moon will darken. And I really didn't understand what that meant. You know, he just said it in person. So later on, when I asked him, he said, well, he just read somewhere and it's just another way to. To talk about the move of the spirit. Sun being darkened is not move of the Spirit. I just couldn't fathom that. Again, like I said, it's, you know, a lack of the understanding of Bible words. Of course, we've already debunked the use of moon and stars, that the Old Testament audience saw the whole world as supernatural. So even when they use natural things, they indicate for the supernatural. That's how they saw it. And we have seen that. That's how we should see it too. In spite of the modern world that we live in.

He founded it upon the seas, and that's clear. So in 2 Kings. Sorry, 2nd Kings 17, were there yesterday. He says, how be it every nation made gods of their own? Now, is this territorial and geographical and put them in their houses? We said, yes, the word Beith, where you have temple of the high places, which the Samaritans had made. Every nation in their cities wherein they dwelt, and the men of Babylon made Socoth, Benoth, and the men of Cuth made Nagal, and the men of Amath made Ashimah and Levites made no Nipvath and Tartach. And the Shabbat burned their children in fire to Adramelech and Anamalech, the gods of Shehavim. And so they feared the Lord and made unto themselves, lowest of them, priests of the high places, which sacrificed for them in the high places.

Of the high places, the house of the high places. They feared the Lord and served their own gods. Every man of the nations whom they carried away from hence. So we said yesterday that anything that binds has a supernatural undertone because it's the Genesis 11 narrative. Something just binds people. They just dress alike, they talk alike, they think alike. Okay? Anything that is binding like that, right? And we said that the word nations here, remember yesterday, Gohi, we said the word nations, G o y is not just geographical, which is also geographical. It's one second, the word nations. The word nations is people bound by culture, ethnicity too, anyway, bound by beliefs. Let me read the substitute for you. It says nations, or each of the nations were making their gods.

They put them in a house of the high places that Samaritan people had made in their cities in which they had settled in them. And so he says, they were fearing the Lord. They established their idols, verse 32, in the houses of the high places. So they were building temples. Notice that when Solomon also went, when he brought in strange women, one of the things he did was that he brought those strange women from different nations and he built a temple each for the idols. So each of the women came. People thought that Solomon's multiple wives was sexual fantasy. No, it wasn't. It's more of worship. In fact, it's debatable. But he had just three children, say three or four. I confirmed that. So it was more of worship. What is the core of the things? They turned his heart to other gods.

That was really the issue with Solomon, that they turned his heart to other gods. Let's figure that out first. Kings 11. These are the things that we won't look at in detail, but let's just leave. Let's just start here briefly. But King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zenonites and Itites. If you go back to the Exodus story, these are the nations where idol worship was called and the nations which the Lord said to the children of Israel, you shall not go in to them. Neither shall they come in unto you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods. Solomon came unto these in love and he had 700 wives, princesses and 300 concubines. And his wives turned away his heart.

It came to pass that when he was older, his wives turned away his heart after them. Notice that the emphasis here was on the gods. His heart was not perfect with the Lord as the heart of David his father. Solomon went after Asher, the goddess of Zidonites and Malcolm, the abolition of the Ammonites. He did evil in the sight of the Lord and went not fully after the Lord, as did David his father. Then did Solomon build a high place for Shemosh, the abomination of Moses, Moab in the hill which is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the children of Amnon. And likewise it all for all his strange wives. So he built a temple. Can you see it? Or all his strange wives which burnt incense sacrifice unto their gods.

So the real issue was, you know, now the core of that was that as yin fight was so as he was making entities, one of the gifts they were giving him were women. Women. And they came with it was a full package. Women and their gods. The women and their gods, the women and their gods. So whilst a lot of people are just looking at Solomon from the aspect, Solomon has 700 wives. That wasn't the issue. The issue was worship. It was worship. The connotation scripture gives is not. It wasn't like he was just a guy who was just after sex. No, no, that wasn't it. It was the question of worship gods. Elohim's. So notice again that as the women came from different nations, they came with gods to worship.

So back again, we're saying that whatever binds people, binds Genesis 11 binds them in unity. So Genesis 11. I would rather number one. Genesis 11 appears more like an archetypal thing, people coming together a particular place and you know, then he becomes a narrative that is used all over the world. That is people coming together to serve another God for Yahweh or to mock or mimic. And then God allows them what they want and that becomes a pattern. We can read into scriptures generally. So. We are closer to the supernatural world. More, more than we think, you know, more than we think. So they identify with nations, with territories, with people. Nations, territories, people don't forget. Look at Genesis 2. In the creation of.

In the creation of Genesis 1 and 14, let there be light in the firmament of the heavens to divide the Day and night. Verse 15. Let them be for light. Verse 16, two great lights. Verse 17. God sent them verse 18 to rule over. Now, Genesis 2:1 says, the heavens and the earth were filled, and the host of them. So we have hosts. The writer of Hebrews, we call them innumerable company of angels. Did you also notice that when God said to Abraham, look at the stars. Can you number them? So shall your seed be. Which means that these supernatural beings do not have that. You can't do a census for them. So which means that we are. The world is filled with supernatural beings, including man. So New Testament language, does it retain it? Oh, it does.

Look at Matthew 24, Denison, Matthew 24 and 29. Immediately after the middle of those days shall the sun be darkened. And the moon shall not give our light. And the stars shall fall from heaven. Notice the last statement. And the powers of the heavens. Now, you know that last statement should have explained it, right? Come on. Are you here? Remember the story chapter we looked at yesterday? Right. The powers of the heavens will be shaken. The powers of the heaven. The sun, moon and stars are not the powers of the heaven. So this is Old Testament language. The powers of the heaven will be shaking. Mark 13 and 24. He says, the sun shall be darkened. The moon shall not be by light. The stars of heaven shall fall. The powers that are in heaven. The powers that are in heaven will be shaken.

Now look at the counter. The son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. Okay, Luke 21. And 25. There shall be signs in the sun, in the moon, and in the stars upon the earth. Distress of nations. Notice. Distress of nations with perplexity. The sea and the waves roaring. This is Genesis, right? Aha. The seas and the waves roaring. Men's hearts failing them for fear and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth. For the powers of the heaven shall be shaken. The powers of the heaven, he says, shall be shaken. So we are dealing with the supernatural world here. Acts 2 and 20. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon. Okay, let me take for 19. I will show wonders in heaven above and signs in the earth beneath. Blood.

Now, Earth belief, Old Testament language. Those are the seas, right? Don't forget that. All right. Then it says, blood and fire and vapors of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood. Before the great and notable day of the Lord will come. Revelation 6:12. When they had opened the sixth seal, and though there was a great earthquake and the sun became black as sacloth of air, and the moon became as blood. 13. As the stars of heaven fell onto the earth, the stars of heaven fell. So look at Revelation 8:12. The fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was written.

And the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars, as the third part of them were darkened, and the day shone not as the third part of it, and the night likewise. So he's again referring to the supernatural world. That's what we call the host of heaven. Language. Look at Psalm 80. Look at the direct text there. Psalm 89, verse 5. And the heaven shall praise thy wonders, O Lord. Thy faithfulness in the congregation of the saints. Verse 6. For who in the heaven can be compared to the Lord? Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the Lord? God is greatly to be fed in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that about him.

O Lord, God of hosts, who is strong like unto thee, and to thy faithfulness round about thee. Look at nine. Thou rulest the raging of the sea. We read that earlier. Right? And the woes thereof arise, you steal them. And it says in verse 10. Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces as one that is slain, which thou hast scattered an enemy with a strong hand. The heavens are dying, the earth are dying, the world and the fullness thereof fallen upon them. So this is the supernatural world. Look at Isaiah 13. So it means that the death of Jesus and his resurrection involve the host of heaven. Isaiah 13:10. I'll start from nine. Behold, the day of the Lord cometh cruel both with the wrath and fierce anger to lay the land desolate. It shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it.

For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light. And the sun shall be darkened in the going forth. And the moon, he says, shall not cause our light to shine. The sun shall be darkened, he says, the moon. Now look at chapter 24. Look, chapter five. First Isaiah 5:30. In that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of the sea. And if one looks in the land, behold, darkness and sorrow. And the light is darkened in the heavens thereof. This is not nature in the heavens thereof. Look at chapter 24, Isaiah 24. And verse 24:1. It shall come to pass. In that day the Lord shall appoint the host. Watch this. The host of the high ones that are on high, the kings of the earth upon the earth.

We're going to look at the connection between authority in the Earth and the host of heaven. Then it says in 23, then the moon shall be confounded and the sun ashamed, when the Lord of hosts shall reign in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before his ancients gloriously. So we have an indicator that we're reading the host of heaven. Supernatural beings. Job 38, 7 says, the son, the morning stars, causing the sons of God. Okay, Ezekiel 32, Verse 7 and verse 8. Watch this now. And then I shall put thee out. I will cover the heaven and make the stars thereof dark. I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give our light. Verse 8. All the watch this.

All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord God. Then it says, I will also vex the hearts of many people. Read that in Matthew 24. Now we can track back a bit to Exodus 10. So it's not. This is not a. A judgment from weather. Can you imagine someone say, it's raining here, it's not raining there. God is judging about weather not worth thou. Exodus 10:21 and he said to Moses, stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt. And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt. Three days. That's not NEPA or PHC enlight. No, in Exodus 15.

It was seen as a war in the heavenlies. Okay, look at verse five. The depths have covered them. The sank in the bottom of stone. The right hand, O Lord, has become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, as dash increases the enemy, then he says in verse nine, the enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake. I will divide the spoil. My law shall be satisfied upon them. I will draw my sword, My hand shall destroy them. Thou ist blow with thy wind. The sea covered them, and the sunk has lead in the mighty waters. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Elohim, who is like unto thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders. Thou stretched forth thy right hand the earth swell them up. So what happened in Egypt was supernatural. Okay, it was supernatural.