Verses 14, Verse 18. Now, many Hebrew Bibles will not use Most High is either high or most. We have just one single word. Genesis 14 is the word elion and verse 18. But to the King of Salem, what forth bread and wine. He was a priest of the Most High. Elohim. Is that clear? Then we have other Elohim, right? So Most High Elohim is the one that sits above the host of heaven. Is it making sense? Huh? So when you say Most High, are you dealing with terrible truth? Huh? All right, Professor Power, come on. All right. So when he says Christ was raised far above all prophet and power in that Old Testament language, Paul is affirming that Jesus is Yahweh. Because it's not like he was raised from the dead. Then Sarah, go up like aeroplane. No, no, no.

That he sits above the host of heaven. Genesis 14:19. Let him be Abraham of the Most High God. So every time you use Most High, you acknowledge that there are other gods, right? There are other Elohim. Verse 20. Again. So most High. Actually just one word is Elyon. Is Elyon. Which means it's a composure. You are making the comprising. When you say most, you are comparing to something highest. Genesis 14:22. The Most High God. The Most High God. They now have it used as Most Holy. Exodus 26:63. Early on is a supernatural word language used for God. Which means you have all our holes of heaven. Exodus 26 and 60 and 33. Sorry. The Holy and the most holy. The holy and the most holy. So the holy and the most holy. You know, we have heaven and heaven of heavens. Are you here?

Holy and most holy. Heaven and heaven of heavens. This is the Tabernacle Again, verse 34, Most holy place, heaven and heaven of heavens. Exodus 29 and 37. It shall be an altar. Most holy. Exodus 30, 10 and 29, most holy. Verse 36, most holy. Exodus 40, verse 10. Let's check that it's in comparison. Which means that, you know, we have the outer court, the inner core. We have the earth, the holy place and the most holy. It describes heaven of heavens. Okay, heaven and heaven of heavens. So it's describing the earth. We have said the tabernacle and the temple describes the earth. Exodus 40: and 10. Thou shalt anoint the altar of burnt offering and sanctify the altar. It shall be an alar masculine of the highest level. Leviticus chapter 2, verse 3. Again, most holy. Leviticus 2:10, Leviticus 6, 17.

So we have most holy, Most Holy Ghost. 27, Verse 28, 24, verse 9, 21, verse 22, 14, 13, 10, 17. That's Leviticus 10:12, Leviticus 6:29, 7:1:76, Leviticus 6, 25, 6, 17 and 2:10 mentioned that earlier. Now look at numbers. Numbers 4, 4 Most Holy Things. Numbers 4, 19, Most Holy Things. Numbers 18, 9, Most Holy. Numbers 18, 10, Most Holy. Now look at numbers 24, 16. So most is in comparison. They are comparing a part of the tabernacle. This is holy. This is more. This of a higher value, something. So most holy God means that there were other Elohims that. So when that demon said, we're going to look at, we're going to study it together. When he said, what have you come to do here? He was laying claim to territory. So once again, when he said, what is your name?

You must connect it together. Because names will talk about functionality. We see that an authority. So what is your name? So Numbers 24 and Verse 16. My name is Gesha. And he says, we share the words of God and knew the knowledge of the Most High. Why? Because they're talking about Balaam and the gods. The knowledge of the Most high. So Deuteronomy 32, 8, most high language relates with places in the earth and beings in the Earth. Most High. Why is it used other gods? Can we say other angels, hosts of heaven were running other places? God now called Israel out of those nations and sold Israel a land. That land is not Canaan. We said that before he's the whole earth. And then says, you know what? You are my vehicle, nation.

So while he gave other nations over to the sons of God, he didn't do that to Israel. He now started a new Nation to Abraham, so that all the nations of the earth will be blessed. That's why Melchizedek said Abraham of the Most High, God, possessor of the nations of the earth, heaven and earth. That's a territorial language. So God chose Israel with no place to take all the places. It's like the church. All right, Definitely. We are just like the church. To reach the whole world, we are called out of the world to reach the same world. Right. Where we are called out of. So Israel is just like that. The Book of Psalms, Psalm 7, 17, the name of the Lord Most High. So that most in the Hebrew is silent, is just high.

But why the English writers use most high is because Elohim or Elion, sorry, is a comparison. So they have to use a comparison most. When I say most, just like you say more most. Right? More is two. Right. Am I correct? Oh, my English is good. Which one is more? That's two. Which one is the most? That's more than two. Those of that's three. Oh, when you say I'm the best of the two, the way I write English and better. So the best means this is the height of it, right? So it's a most high. So which means that the writer of the Old Testament knows that amongst the Elohim there are grades and levels. But when it comes to Yahweh, he is the most High. There is no height above him. Is it making sense? So it's a comparative language.

Psalm 9, verse 2, the Most High. Psalm 21, verse 6, Most Blessed. Psalm 21, verse 17, Most High. Psalm 46, verse 4, Most High. Psalm 47, the Lord Most High, verse 2, Psalm 50, verse 13, the Most High. And you know that David, amongst the psalmist, he dealt a lot with other gods. That's why we said most High a lot of times. And every time Paul says he's raised up. So when you hear Jesus was raised up, the raised up is not that just came alive and walking. No, no, it's to sit above the host of heaven. That's the language, Most high. You break it down. Of course, that's the core of what we're seeing seated on high is above. You can't say above and not know what is above. It's above what principalities and powers. It's not above the governor of your state.

Your governor might even be a Christian. All right? It's about principalities and powers. So Psalm 50, verse 14. I mentioned that. Psalm 52, 26, verse 2, most high, 57, verse 2, most high. 73, Verse 11. The most high. 77, Verse 10. 78, Verse 17, 78, verse 56. It tempted the most high. Psalm 82. 6 Will come to that in a moment. Psalm 82. 6. Psalm 83. 18. We are the Most High over all the earth. Why? Because. Which means you have no territory. Is that clear? Why do other gods have territories? You have no territory. Psalm 91. One secret place of the Most High. Psalm 91, verse 9, Psalm 92. 1, Psalm 92, verse 8 and Psalm 107, verse so Most High. Look at Psalm 14. So Isaiah 14. 14. So Most High is comparing right early on to other gods.

Now, there's a New Testament writer retained that context. Yes, Seated above. Above what? All principalities pass by the gods in the nations of the earth. Yes. So a lack of understanding of this, you know, that's why people are thinking the believer's authority is to collect contracts. Oh, I collect contract. I say. I just want you to. It's mine. When I enter that room, they will even interview me. They just say, how many tons you want to supply. They just go and supply. Pick your price. Whatever price you say, yes. That's not my ministry. I don't believe for what you get it. Some Isaiah 14 that describes that connects us back to the. To the Luciferian concept of Satan. Look at what he said. Verse 13. I will ascend to heaven. That's host of heaven language.

I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. Is that very clear? Is that host of heaven good? Is that the cloud of witnesses? I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. Let's take 14 together. I will ascend above the height of the cloud. I would be like. Can you see what Mosai now means? Above would be heaven of the heavens. Above. Okay. So the Most High language shows other supernatural beings. Other supernatural beings in you is comparison. We said that to compare God, who is the uncreated Elohim. The only Elohim that was not created. One second. We heard the only Elohim that was not created. Right. Luke chapter 8, verse 28. Notice that Luke again retains the territory. And they arrived at the country of gatherings, which is over Galilee. Over and against Galilee.

All right. So this presupposes a gentile territory. Are you here? You know Galilee? You know Galilee. So this presupposes Galilee a gentile territory. And he went forth to the land and let out of the city Solomon, which had devils long time and were no clothes. He said he saw Jesus on the crowd Cried out, jesus, son of God Most High, I beseech you, torment me not. So you see why Jesus sent them out to place. So you see by saying this is Galilee, and then the demon responding by saying most High is claiming territory. Are you following what I'm saying? Allegedly so. Because in Luke 4 he said, all the kingdoms and the glory have been given to me. How well I say have been given to us. Okay, if you bow, I'll give it to you. Okay.

So the point is, territories are involved. So this particular we're going to see it next week is laying clean. It's like when Jesus said, upon this rock I build my church and the gates of hell shall not be against it. From that point, we don't talk about it there. And also factually that Jesus, the moment he said the sorry is temple, I wrote it again. That was the beginning of the end. So when we don't know what end of the world is and we cannot identify with the temple, we miss everything that's going on. So most eye language is about God amongst the gods. Is that very clear? Over the host of heaven far above. So the resurrection, like E.W. Kennan said, what did the devil see? The eyewitnesses just saw a man who physically appeared and he had the nails in his hand.

What the devil saw was a human being now sits above the host of heaven. The problem is he is also God. He sits above the host of heaven. You know, in this case, we now said, we now found a human being is now in the cloud of witnesses. He becomes a witness and this becomes a doorway for all of us to enter in. I you following what I'm saying? Look at Psalm 89. We are going back to that part of this series where we said, why did God become a human being? What did he achieve? I was just to come and pay for our sins. People will say, was God not forgiving sins before Jesus became a man? But that forgiveness was not permanent. Who told you that?

You know the funny thing about when we say things like that, when we talk about forgiveness of sins, how you now go to the psalmist, he said, he forgives all your iniquities. It's not David that said it, Is he not the one that said it? So you go back to the Old Testament to look at the same gift of righteousness and say, they didn't really have it. They didn't have what they did. This is the big deal. You get it? This is the big deal that the most High, he said, ask of me and I will give you the ethering for your possession the uttermost parts of the earth, that is, I will give everything the seed of David, the earth. So even though the earth is a resting place, it's not just a lyric of his own.