Let's pray. Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we thank you again this evening for a time of fellowship and to study the written word. Thank you for the light you brought our way so far. As we study further, we believe and receive that questions that are answered this evening doubts are dissolved. Seeming mystic areas of scriptures are equally unraveled before our eyes. And together Jesus Christ, your son, even as his healing Jesus in him is glorified in here this evening, his name is exalted and we are edified alongside those who hear us at the body of Christ. Amen. Sabasi 2nd Timothy 3 we're still unseated on high. And verse 16. I'm correct. Today all scripture is given by inspiration of God's purpose for doctrine or approved for correction for instruction in righteousness. And here the authors are referring to the Old Testament.

What did I just do to the Old Testament books? The authors are referring to the Old Testament. I'll read a commentary that I gave at the World Changers Conference again on our use of the Old Testament. And we said the simplistic interpretation of the Old Testament as what is done away with has led to the total disregard of its text or content. It has made modern believers unable to interpret it. So we said, what is the Old Testament? And we said that the Old Testament cannot be the message because it's called the word of God. John 10:34, Jesus calls it the word of God. Hebrews 4:2 calls it the gospel. Jeremiah 31:31:34 calls it the new covenant.

So if the Old Testament books are called new covenant or new covenant is found there, and the concept of eternal life is an Old Testament explanation also. So we'll see all that as we proceed. Then what is old cannot be the message. We said that repeatedly. It has to be the context of the grammar, the vehicle which is human. The human element is what is old. It can't be the divine element. The element remains eternal. That's really human element. And of course, I expect you not to draw a line quickly because I just mentioned the grammar and context. So the cultural context. I've not finished defining what is the Old Testament before. I know you won't draw a line, but it's part of the things that we're going to include. The fact that the cultural context, which also includes a mode of speech.

And don't forget cultural context also involves religion. We assume, for example, that God did not use their religion, but he did. He used their religion. What they taught or what they used as worship was also used By God. So let me have that commentary again that the modern thinker, which is you and I can easily be detached from the context, theological context of the Old Testament. Let's see a few things about, you know, on today's Friday. Was it on Monday we had. Last one was Monday. Okay. On Monday we said that the supernatural world context of the Old Testament was irretained by New Testament writers. And we said it has to because you cannot. If you take the context of the message itself is taken from the supernatural world. Look at a few things. Hebrews 1:1.

God, who assumed the times in diverse manner, spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets. Propheteas in the Greek. And this is not a one time explanation of the Old Testament. We have more explanations. Second Peter 1 the old the prophecy came not in the old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. 2Nd Peter 1:21, 1st Peter 1:10 of which salvation the prophets are prophesied referring to the Old Testament text, referring them to the prophets. Then we have Paul, Romans 16 and verse 26, the Scriptures of the prophets, Romans 1:1 or 1:2, which are promised by his prophet. So who is a prophet? A prophet is a messenger of the supernatural world. The word Nabai n e b I is a messenger. Call him an interpreter. The supernatural world.

Now in Deuteronomy 13. It says, if there arise among you a prophet or a dreamer of dreams, and give thee a sign or a wonder, and the sign of the wonder comes to pass, whereof is spoken to you, saying, let us go after other gods. So prophet is not unique to the Christian faith. Prophet is a general definition of somebody who interprets supernatural things. But in the Christian faith. Listen to this very well. The prophet is now a teacher of God's law. Which means that what is unique about the Christian prophet is not the signs and the wonders which has to be part of his ministry, but the message. That's why Moses will say here now, if he now tells you to follow other gods, which is his doctrine, it says, you will not do that for more than that.

In verse 4 and 5 he said, you can also decide to kill the person. You know, I mean, put the person to death. Actually that's the right word. Not kill. Put the person to death by punishment. So the prophet is the one who stands as a receiver of a message from the supernatural world. So if it's meant to teach the law of God, it means the law of God has a Supernatural world context. Now put this clearly, which means that the message that these prophets eventually teach and write are falsely supernatural in origin before they are conducted and conveyed through human grammar. What does that mean? Now, of course, The Psalmist, Psalm 78:2 did say that to speak as of old, that is from function of the world. You speak in parables. New Testament. Old Testament says, yeah, in dark speeches. Okay, dark speeches.

The Hebrew word chida. Dark speeches and puzzles. And we said the word parable. New Testament says it's a parable to cross from one realm to another, to cross the street. So which means that their words were primarily supernatural in origin. Which means they give cultural, human, grammatical expression to supernatural facts. This will also mean that we must therefore see the Bible as a book that points us to the supernatural world. It's very important that is not lost. You know, I remember years back when I did a series then on the Garden of Eden in 1995, it was, I think it was. And I mentioned that what you have in Eden is not literal. I said, it's a relationship. And somebody really was finding it funny. He said, but it's three now. The Bible did not say so.

I said, the Bible did not say so. The Bible did not say so. I said, well, the Bible did not say so, but what you can already see here, the voice of God walking. And I tried to let them see that this is indicator of something else, you know, But I guess we wouldn't sit down to think serpent speaking, you know, stuff like that. So they are all supernatural pointers. So if the first books of the Bible are pointers to the supernatural, that must guide how we read them. Now notice that in all the parables of Jesus, when he talks about the kingdom of heaven, it's always a man has a man does. And you know, I call mentioning this in some of the series earlier when we started Saints Covenant Church before sorry.

And I said that every time just talk about kingdom of heaven, he always talks about earthly activities. So the kingdom of heaven is for the purpose of explanation, something being done supernaturally in the earth and man is involved. So if the scriptures and Luke 24, 25 oh, fool's law of how to believe all that the prophets have spoken. All that the prophets have spoken. The prophet again is a man who stands as an interpreter of the supernatural world. Let's say Jeremiah again. 23 Jeremiah 23, Jeremiah picks out the difference between a false prophet and a genuine one. In verse 16, he says, Hearken not unto the words of the prophets. That prophesy unto you they make you vain. They speak a vision of their own heart and not out of the mouth of the Lord.

They say still unto them that despise me, the Lord hath said, you shall have peace. And they say unto everyone that walks after the imagination of his own heart, no evil shall come upon you. Which means that they just tell people what they want to hear. Now look at 18. For who hath stood in the council of the Lord? Now that word counsel is the word sod, which means an assembly, okay? Or fellowship of the Lord, which has more than one person and had perceived and heard his word, who marked his word and heard it. So who is the prophet? What? He stands in that assembly. He has access to the supernatural world. He perceives and hears. He has heard it. His access is supernatural.

Then he says in verse 20, he says in verse 21, I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran. I have not spoken to them, yet they prophesied. But if they have stood in my counsel and caused my people to hear my words, then they should have returned them from the evil way and from evil of their doings. So notice the marker. The marker there is that this fellow did not stand, did not hear it from God. It was not where God was. Something like that. So that's the prophet. Prophet is one who stands and receives by visions, revelations, perceptions of God's spirit. He gets a message, an inscription. So what does he now do? He communicates it in human language, in his own cultural context. That's how he can communicate what he has seen and heard.

Now, what he has seen and heard will not come out in a cultural grammatical context, which will now maybe make it look like just everyday communication. No? Let's know who is he? He is a messenger of the supernatural world, which means that the books of scripture, the words of scripture, are originally from a supernatural world. This is why it becomes very injurious for us to read Genesis as material world creation. And you wonder why do I need a prophet or a supernatural explanation of material world creation? There's no such stuff. Because that would be. That's not scientific anyway. And you cannot, even can't fly. So that should help us in the way we appreciate the real. So now we said again on Scriptures, we said that Christ, does the New Testament author say that on Monday?

Again, does he retain the context of the Old Testament? And we said, yes, he retains it. Because Paul uses the word oftentimes the word apocalypsis or which is the word to reveal Revelation. He uses revelation a lot and all the other writers of Scripture. So by using revelation, that is the Scriptures, what they wrote, their letters are meant to be revealed revelations, which means they have retained the context of the Old Testament. The fact that we're in the modern world, where we seem to think that this world is not as it was, like I said, it's a deception really doesn't change what the Bible stands to be or stands as. So very quickly last time we began to look at some definitions used by. Again, maybe we should pause and see something in Genesis. Genesis again, Chapter two and verse one.

Maybe tomorrow, or maybe the other time, I'll look at this a bit better. It says in verse 1, Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. The key remains Genesis. If we lose it in Genesis, there's a strong likelihood that we'll miss everything that is said in scripture. So Genesis 1 will be torn in betwixt 2 in Genesis 1. Material world creation. Or Genesis 1 uses material world creation. If we stick to material world creation, then our proofs must be scientific and we're going to sound very dumb because it's not going to be true. So Genesis 1 will be what someone said. Well, that's the science of their day. Again, you appear funny because it's either science was used to explain supernatural things, or science strictly sense was strictly speaking.