Let's pray. Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we thank you again this evening for a time of fellowship and to study the written word. Thank you for the light you brought our way so far. As we study further, we believe and receive that questions that are answered this evening doubts are dissolved. Seeming mystic areas of scriptures are equally unraveled before our eyes. And together Jesus Christ, your son, even as his healing Jesus in him is glorified in here this evening, his name is exalted and we are edified alongside those who hear us at the body of Christ. Amen. Sabasi 2nd Timothy 3 we're still unseated on high. And verse 16. I'm correct. Today all scripture is given by inspiration of God's purpose for doctrine or approved for correction for instruction in righteousness. And here the authors are referring to the Old Testament.

What did I just do to the Old Testament books? The authors are referring to the Old Testament. I'll read a commentary that I gave at the World Changers Conference again on our use of the Old Testament. And we said the simplistic interpretation of the Old Testament as what is done away with has led to the total disregard of its text or content. It has made modern believers unable to interpret it. So we said, what is the Old Testament? And we said that the Old Testament cannot be the message because it's called the word of God. John 10:34, Jesus calls it the word of God. Hebrews 4:2 calls it the gospel. Jeremiah 31:31:34 calls it the new covenant.

So if the Old Testament books are called new covenant or new covenant is found there, and the concept of eternal life is an Old Testament explanation also. So we'll see all that as we proceed. Then what is old cannot be the message. We said that repeatedly. It has to be the context of the grammar, the vehicle which is human. The human element is what is old. It can't be the divine element. The element remains eternal. That's really human element. And of course, I expect you not to draw a line quickly because I just mentioned the grammar and context. So the cultural context. I've not finished defining what is the Old Testament before. I know you won't draw a line, but it's part of the things that we're going to include. The fact that the cultural context, which also includes a mode of speech.

And don't forget cultural context also involves religion. We assume, for example, that God did not use their religion, but he did. He used their religion. What they taught or what they used as worship was also used By God. So let me have that commentary again that the modern thinker, which is you and I can easily be detached from the context, theological context of the Old Testament. Let's see a few things about, you know, on today's Friday. Was it on Monday we had. Last one was Monday. Okay. On Monday we said that the supernatural world context of the Old Testament was irretained by New Testament writers. And we said it has to because you cannot. If you take the context of the message itself is taken from the supernatural world. Look at a few things. Hebrews 1:1.

God, who assumed the times in diverse manner, spoke in time past to the fathers by the prophets. Propheteas in the Greek. And this is not a one time explanation of the Old Testament. We have more explanations. Second Peter 1 the old the prophecy came not in the old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. 2Nd Peter 1:21, 1st Peter 1:10 of which salvation the prophets are prophesied referring to the Old Testament text, referring them to the prophets. Then we have Paul, Romans 16 and verse 26, the Scriptures of the prophets, Romans 1:1 or 1:2, which are promised by his prophet. So who is a prophet? A prophet is a messenger of the supernatural world. The word Nabai n e b I is a messenger. Call him an interpreter. The supernatural world.

Now in Deuteronomy 13. It says, if there arise among you a prophet or a dreamer of dreams, and give thee a sign or a wonder, and the sign of the wonder comes to pass, whereof is spoken to you, saying, let us go after other gods. So prophet is not unique to the Christian faith. Prophet is a general definition of somebody who interprets supernatural things. But in the Christian faith. Listen to this very well. The prophet is now a teacher of God's law. Which means that what is unique about the Christian prophet is not the signs and the wonders which has to be part of his ministry, but the message. That's why Moses will say here now, if he now tells you to follow other gods, which is his doctrine, it says, you will not do that for more than that.

In verse 4 and 5 he said, you can also decide to kill the person. You know, I mean, put the person to death. Actually that's the right word. Not kill. Put the person to death by punishment. So the prophet is the one who stands as a receiver of a message from the supernatural world. So if it's meant to teach the law of God, it means the law of God has a Supernatural world context. Now put this clearly, which means that the message that these prophets eventually teach and write are falsely supernatural in origin before they are conducted and conveyed through human grammar. What does that mean? Now, of course, The Psalmist, Psalm 78:2 did say that to speak as of old, that is from function of the world. You speak in parables. New Testament. Old Testament says, yeah, in dark speeches. Okay, dark speeches.

The Hebrew word chida. Dark speeches and puzzles. And we said the word parable. New Testament says it's a parable to cross from one realm to another, to cross the street. So which means that their words were primarily supernatural in origin. Which means they give cultural, human, grammatical expression to supernatural facts. This will also mean that we must therefore see the Bible as a book that points us to the supernatural world. It's very important that is not lost. You know, I remember years back when I did a series then on the Garden of Eden in 1995, it was, I think it was. And I mentioned that what you have in Eden is not literal. I said, it's a relationship. And somebody really was finding it funny. He said, but it's three now. The Bible did not say so.

I said, the Bible did not say so. The Bible did not say so. I said, well, the Bible did not say so, but what you can already see here, the voice of God walking. And I tried to let them see that this is indicator of something else, you know, But I guess we wouldn't sit down to think serpent speaking, you know, stuff like that. So they are all supernatural pointers. So if the first books of the Bible are pointers to the supernatural, that must guide how we read them. Now notice that in all the parables of Jesus, when he talks about the kingdom of heaven, it's always a man has a man does. And you know, I call mentioning this in some of the series earlier when we started Saints Covenant Church before sorry.

And I said that every time just talk about kingdom of heaven, he always talks about earthly activities. So the kingdom of heaven is for the purpose of explanation, something being done supernaturally in the earth and man is involved. So if the scriptures and Luke 24, 25 oh, fool's law of how to believe all that the prophets have spoken. All that the prophets have spoken. The prophet again is a man who stands as an interpreter of the supernatural world. Let's say Jeremiah again. 23 Jeremiah 23, Jeremiah picks out the difference between a false prophet and a genuine one. In verse 16, he says, Hearken not unto the words of the prophets. That prophesy unto you they make you vain. They speak a vision of their own heart and not out of the mouth of the Lord.

They say still unto them that despise me, the Lord hath said, you shall have peace. And they say unto everyone that walks after the imagination of his own heart, no evil shall come upon you. Which means that they just tell people what they want to hear. Now look at 18. For who hath stood in the council of the Lord? Now that word counsel is the word sod, which means an assembly, okay? Or fellowship of the Lord, which has more than one person and had perceived and heard his word, who marked his word and heard it. So who is the prophet? What? He stands in that assembly. He has access to the supernatural world. He perceives and hears. He has heard it. His access is supernatural.

Then he says in verse 20, he says in verse 21, I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran. I have not spoken to them, yet they prophesied. But if they have stood in my counsel and caused my people to hear my words, then they should have returned them from the evil way and from evil of their doings. So notice the marker. The marker there is that this fellow did not stand, did not hear it from God. It was not where God was. Something like that. So that's the prophet. Prophet is one who stands and receives by visions, revelations, perceptions of God's spirit. He gets a message, an inscription. So what does he now do? He communicates it in human language, in his own cultural context. That's how he can communicate what he has seen and heard.

Now, what he has seen and heard will not come out in a cultural grammatical context, which will now maybe make it look like just everyday communication. No? Let's know who is he? He is a messenger of the supernatural world, which means that the books of scripture, the words of scripture, are originally from a supernatural world. This is why it becomes very injurious for us to read Genesis as material world creation. And you wonder why do I need a prophet or a supernatural explanation of material world creation? There's no such stuff. Because that would be. That's not scientific anyway. And you cannot, even can't fly. So that should help us in the way we appreciate the real. So now we said again on Scriptures, we said that Christ, does the New Testament author say that on Monday?

Again, does he retain the context of the Old Testament? And we said, yes, he retains it. Because Paul uses the word oftentimes the word apocalypsis or which is the word to reveal Revelation. He uses revelation a lot and all the other writers of Scripture. So by using revelation, that is the Scriptures, what they wrote, their letters are meant to be revealed revelations, which means they have retained the context of the Old Testament. The fact that we're in the modern world, where we seem to think that this world is not as it was, like I said, it's a deception really doesn't change what the Bible stands to be or stands as. So very quickly last time we began to look at some definitions used by. Again, maybe we should pause and see something in Genesis. Genesis again, Chapter two and verse one.

Maybe tomorrow, or maybe the other time, I'll look at this a bit better. It says in verse 1, Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. The key remains Genesis. If we lose it in Genesis, there's a strong likelihood that we'll miss everything that is said in scripture. So Genesis 1 will be torn in betwixt 2 in Genesis 1. Material world creation. Or Genesis 1 uses material world creation. If we stick to material world creation, then our proofs must be scientific and we're going to sound very dumb because it's not going to be true. So Genesis 1 will be what someone said. Well, that's the science of their day. Again, you appear funny because it's either science was used to explain supernatural things, or science strictly sense was strictly speaking.

So you have Genesis 1, and we've done the study to say Genesis 1 will be three things in the same way. How did the other interpreters. We have interpreters. Let's assume without conceding that Moses didn't have a hand in Genesis 1 and 2. Let's assume, even though I will concede that Moses had not as much, I think from all observation, there was a lot of editing in the first. I mean, the first two chapters, but let's leave that. So Moses will now be talking about this. Now he's an interpreter. So he is going to interpret this to his audience in the Exodus. And in Exodus 20, he says he talks about the Sabbath in verse eight, Keep it holy. Six days you labor and do all thy work. Then the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord.

Then he says, in heaven, in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and allowed it. Now let's assume, without considering, that he's saying that after God worked, he rested. That's a bit ludicrous. It means that either he was tired or he needed it, or he took you know, it's not about tired and needing it is the fact that he has completed his work and he has completed his job. And again, it looks funny really, because what God rests from is okay, he completed the earth, he rested, but he dropped that one for supernatural things, you know. Then say, well, he finished the earthly one, but he didn't finish the supernatural one. You know, Again, all those things become confusing.

But when Moses said this, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it? Which means it's a holy information we have in Genesis 2:1 3. Now afterwards in Deuteronomy chapter 5, when the same thing will be interpreted Jeremiah chapter 5 in verse 12 Keep the Sabbath day. Verse 13 Six days you labor and you do all the work. Seventh day, verse 14. Then he says in 15 Remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and the Lord had brought thee out ends through a mighty hand by stretched out arm. Therefore the Lord had commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. So you are, you have Genesis 2 is synonymous to the redemption in the Exodus.

Later writers who will interpret the same thing, for example David, Psalm 24 he says, the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof the world and they that dwell therein. He founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods. Who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord, who shall stand in his holy place? So he calls what God made his hill, and he calls the holy place. Holy place is temple information, temple language, no doubt holy place. Now we also know that in the Genesis command, be fruitful, multiply, replenish the earth. Genesis 1:27 or 26 to 28, which wasn't speaking to any person specifically, it was mankind. It was repeated Genesis 9:1 to Noah, Be fruitful, multiply, replenish the earth.

Of course, when you read what was equally said to Abraham Then Genesis 22, verse 17 I'll bless thee, multiply and multiply thee. And you know and you have to Jacob to so it means that the covenant God gave to Abraham, Noah, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob had to do being fruitful and multiplying. And so Psalm 24, verse 1 says the fullness thereof. So if we are seeing synonymous things we've done the fact that when Moses also the number seven and all of that when Moses completed the tabernacle, the same words were used for the tabernacle about you finished it. So that means interpreters of this definitely were not referring to material world creation was the material world use here, of course, but the original language the original message is a supernatural world.

So the Exodus, the building of the temple and the creation story are synonymous. Also, Noah in a new creation, Genesis 9:1, after chaos and destruction, is also called to multiply and replenish the earth. So these interpretations do not leave us in any doubt that the original audience of Genesis 1 and 2 are talking about God's new creation or God's creative activity. Generally. The the creative activity of God is redemptive in nature. It's a salvation story. It's a temple building of temple story. Sorry. So later interpreters have left us with no doubt that the creation story is a temple story. Now again, the use of heaven and earth, which we have looked at over and over again, speaks of the temple. As it is in heaven, so is on the earth. Temple the kingdom. Whatever you bind on earth is burning. Heaven, Temple.

I call heaven and earth. Exodus Jeremiah 30:15 to witness to this day temple in Revelation 21 and it says, A new heaven and a new earth tabernacle temple. So Latin interpreters have left us with no doubt that what was being done in Genesis is a temple story or a tabernacle story. The use of Luak or Menuka both ways rest or rest place that replaced the Shabbat seventh rest, seventh day of rest by the latter interpreters also leaves us with no doubt that we are dealing with the rest place of God. The word Shabbat, where you have rest, is used in Genesis 2, verse 3, and in Genesis 8:22. Seed and harvest will not cease in Exodus chapter 5 and verse 5. And this will help us to have no conflict where there should be none.

Conflicting with scientists trying to argue the age of the earth, and so on so forth. Leaves us mostly dumbfounded. Exodus 5 and 5 he says, Behold, the people of the land now are many, and you shall make them rest their burdens. Rest from their burdens. The word Shabbat is used there. Exodus 12:5. No, no, leave it at Exodus 5:5. So that one is used consistently to refer to something stopping. And what stops? The question should now be, what will have stopped in Genesis 2, verse 1 to 3. Genesis 1, verse 2 talks about the earth was without form and void, and there was darkness. All right. Speaks about the waters of chaos. So Genesis 2, verse 1 to 3. What will stop will be the chaos. That's why that story is used to explain the bondage in Egypt.

The bondage also stops the calamities judgment, where calamity, judgments sin when they are put to a stop. Its creation. It's God's Creation theology all over again. Labor in Egypt stopped, which is chaos, slavery. So this now brings us to what the writer of Hebrews meant about entering into his rest. Of course, rest to the New Testament author also doesn't mean siesta or taking a nap or something as funny as that. Rather, he says in verse four, in Hebrews chapter four, he says, God did rest for me, his works. Now his works there will refer to taking care of the chaos in Genesis 2:1, 2. You see, we also usually forget that what we see in Genesis 1 into 2 came out of the chaotic situation in Genesis 1, verse 2.

So the work of God will be light out of darkness, a home out of chaos. That is his work. That is what ceased. What sees is not his house. What seizes is the chaos. So when he says that, just like God, I mean all the works, foundation of the world, he says God did rest from his works. Then this writer says in verse 10, he that is entered into his rest would not have. I mean, has also ceased from his own works. Now from his own works will be what? In that order, of course, this is salvation story. It's also made from chaos and bondage and all that. That's what is intended here. It's not speaking against works, it speaks for works. Paul will say, we are his workmanship. Ephesians 2, verse 10. Created in Christ Jesus unto good works.

The word creates comes in again, of course, in the Greek is the word poema P O I E M A, which is. We said create doesn't mean out of nothing. Create means to bring something, to be more purposeful and all of that. So what we have in Genesis, we mustn't miss it, because New Testament theology is built from the foundation of the world. What we have in Genesis is that Genesis 1 and 2 is God's rest, place in motion. Again, just to remind you that the use of land continues through Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Israel, up to the New Testament. And the use of land is to show, to reveal God's plan for the earth. That was said to Abraham, said to Isaac, Jacob, and of course, definitely to Noah and to Israel in the Exodus.

So the issue in Genesis 1:2 will be that God makes the earth. And the most special place will be Eden. I mean, everybody knows that Eden seems like a special place on the earth, which I said, therefore. Let me put out what I put here. I said, Eden, therefore, is the destination of the whole earth. Eden is where everything is headed to the man he made, he put in Eden. God himself is right there. Eden becomes the Destination. So what is in Eden? For us, Eden is temple. Eden is a mountain on high. All right, it's a Mountain. Ezekiel 28, verse 1 and 2 describes. No, no, let me take that back. Ezekiel 28, Verse 12 to 14 talks about Eden as the mountain. Psalm 24, verse 3 and 4. A holy hill is mountain. Isaiah will call it.

The Lord come upon his mountains. So the mountains hidden is his dwelling place, a sacred place. Something else is in Eden. Host of heaven. The hosts of heaven are there because it's heaven and earth in the same place. The hosts of heaven are there. That's why we have the nakash, that supernatural being. In Genesis 3, verse 1, the host of heaven are there. Genesis 2, verse 1. The heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. So Eden becomes the final destination. Let's see how the Book of Revelation places it. Eden is God's kingdom. Hidden is eternal life. So we've said before, eternal life is a place. Eternal life is a possession. It's in a person. It's an experience. It's all synonymous, and no one contradicts the other. Revelation 21, Verse one. A new heaven, a new earth, the first heaven.

And the earth is gone. God's tabernacle is, you know, in place. Revelation 20:2, About 21, 22, say, I saw no temple therein. The Lord God Almighty and the Lamb at the temple of Revelation 21 and 2, I saw no temple. I saw no building. He said, the Lord himself is the temple of the place. The city needs no sun, no moon, no shine. For the glory light it. Lamb is the light thereof. That shows you that any theology that talks about God destroying the earth, and it's absolutely not biblical, what God will do to the earth is to renew it. And what he's doing is making it habitable as his own Place. Revelation 22, verse 1. He showed me a pure river of the water of life, as clear as Christopher was not of the throne of God and of the Lamb.

Throne of God again is host of heaven. Language. Okay. And the Lamb in the midst of the street of Eden, on either side of the river, there was the tree of life. So again, these writers are letting us see verse 3. There shall be no more curse. Right? No more curse. That's Eden, right? Because the curse takes place outside Eden. No more curse. The throne of God and of Lamb shall be in it. His servants shall serve him. So no doubt, Eden is the final destination of the whole earth. So as it was at the beginning. So that's why New Testament Writers. It says we labor to enter in. I was going to talk about some later on. We're there. We're not there yet. Language of both Jesus and New Testament author. We're there. We're not there yet.

We're there because we are in Christ and we're in his temple. But we're not there yet because the destination is the whole earth. So we are there, we're not there yet. We are in the kingdom yet. We're looking forward to the kingdom. We have eternal life, yet we're looking forward to eternal life. Now we say we're looking forward to eternal life. We're looking forward to the earth becoming what it was made for. That's basically what it is. So Eden is the final. Eden is the final destination of the earth. Therefore our view of the earth space must be primarily supernatural. We therefore have a natural earth that is built upon the supernatural world. Just for repeat, I'm repeating that over and over again.

So last time out, we looked at the language of Paul and how he uses the host of heaven narrative to speak about principalities, power, might and dominion. I've not touched it yet. Just scratching the surface, because we're going to look at it in better detail. So we either see the earth as purely natural or the Earth as natural and supernatural. Which is the right description, really. I'm saying the identity of this earth that we're in is that it's founded upon the supernatural world. That must be the way we see it. Anything otherwise, you know, we miss it. So Eden is the final destination and we have the host of heaven. Host of heaven have both negative and positive connotation. I read a bit of that. Let's go through them again.

In Colossians chapter 1 and 16, Paul says in verse 16, by him were all things created that are in heaven and are in the earth, visible and invisible, thrones, dominions, principles and powers. Things that were created by him and for him. And in Colossians 2:15, it says, in the death of Jesus, he spoiled principalities and power. This is host of heaven, its four principalities and power, and made a show of them, hopefully triumphing over them in it. We're coming back to this later on in Ephesians and chapter one, Paul, writing about the death of Jesus didn't just talk about someone going to the cross and that was it. He says, Verse 20, far above 21, far above. All principalities and power and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but in that which is to come.

So that you will know what happened to the believer. He says, you are raised up together, Verse six, to sit together in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus. So a salvation theology that does not deal with the supernatural world is very incomplete. In chapter three and ten he says to us again that to the intent that now onto the principles of powers in the heavenly places or heavenlies might be made known by the church the manifold wisdom of God, ignore the fact that. No, not ignore. Take note of the fact that the use of angels by Peter in 1st Peter 1 and 12, and it says the angels decided to look into it, is a bit too modern. It should be host of heaven. Today, if I will use the word angels in a proper biblical term, I rather use host of heavenly beings.

When Paul in First Corinthians 6, 2 and 3 says, we'll judge the angels, how do I say will judge the host of heaven? That's a better language. Will judge the host of heaven. So when you see Hebrews 1 angels, there are also hosts of heaven. Host of heaven narrative. One of the beings in the host of heaven is that nakash, that divining being in Genesis 3, verse 1, through to Genesis 15 and 16. So when Peter is going to read about Peter, when Peter speaks about the angels desire to look into one Peter 1:12 is host of heaven. So there are hosts of heaven, supernatural beings in whom involved in the redemptive work of Jesus. So In Ephesians chapter 6, Paul now says, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against.

Of course, he says, we strong the Lord, the power of his might put on the whole arm of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, and against the rulers of the darkness of this world. Now notice this. Against spiritual wickedness in the high host of heaven. Take unto you the old hammer of God. So the host of heaven. So whenever we say Jesus is raised up, you are not going to see him above a building. It's a host of heaven narrative, which means a man, a human being, now sits above the host of heaven. In John 1:51, Jesus said, you see that in the resurrection angels will ascend and descend, which is same stuff as Genesis 28, 12, 13. That's what Jacob saw.

So the narrative of the redemptive work of Jesus will be incomplete or incoherent until we see what happened in the background. EW Kenyon, in his book what Happened from the Cross to the Throne, showed us what happened on the cross, what did Satan see? Because there's what Satan saw, there's what those around saw. What those around saw wasn't what was going on. What happened in the three days and three nights? What did Satan see? What did he see in the resurrection? And he ended up. Is the part I've not taught yet as I want to. Then he said, what did God see? Of course, he said also, what did the devil see on the day of Pentecost? Something happened in the supernatural world. There's a heaven narrative to all the stories of the four Gospels.

I'll say that again because Jesus talked about the kingdom of heaven right from the incarnation. We saw the host of heaven involved in Jesus being born. Luke chapter two. So there's a heaven side to the earthly world. I'll take that again. There's a heaven side to earthly narrative. And our interpretation becomes incorrect if we don't see that side. So we began to see how Paul opens it up in the language. For example, I must mention, by using temple for us and temple for our gathering, then Paul has included host of heaven. You can't have the temple of God without the host of heaven. Supernatural beings. I was going to talk about that a bit on Sunday.

So when it says in Hebrews 12:22, you are come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, then it says the heavenly Jerusalem, innumerable company of angels, that host of heaven, the church of the firstborn. You know, a brother was trying to show me something one day and I smiled. He said, sir, I'm thinking whether that innumerable company of angels is not. Because sometimes you told us. There's also. This time you told us something. And I can't tell people that. I know it's good to, you know, to study further. But let me say something that I was misquoted yesterday when I said, but check how you are studying for that, right? I mean, nobody should put a limit on me. I want to break forth. You find yourself in the host of heaven. So he said to me, he said, don't.

I think he said he was just thinking that, you know, I'll talk about three guys, three sets of guys. There was one that said to me that. That he thinks that. That lifting up of hands in. In First Timothy 2, that the lifting of hands there, Luli. That he checked the word chaerel and was trying to look at him. He said, it's not literally hands. That was. I said, you're going to be in trouble. Then another set came up and said, when Paul says, in Hebrews 13:15 by him let us offer the sacrifice to pull our lives. Giving thanks to his name that what he's saying that he checked that word lips, huh? That is not literally giving thanks that the. I said, the trouble you are looking for was parked like a Christmas hamper.

And you think it's a good thing to eat, that it's called poison. What are you, what are you interpreting? How will you just take Greek and Hebrew words and begin to rasmatize your mind? So this guy said, the agenda since evangelists use for human beings. So I said, okay, good. The same book of Hebrew is where I'm going to start. Hebrews 1:4. He has obtained a better name than all the ministers of the gospel. When he brought the first begotten, he said, let all the ministers of the gospel worship. So I said, satisfying. I said, no, I'm not done. I said, every transgression and disobedience reward. Said I did not. All ministering spirit sent forth for who they are heirs of salvation. Which of the angels? Said he at any time said, so let's say those angels are men of God.

Which was the men of God? As he said at any time that my son, he kept smiling. I said, that's not even where I'm going to. There's one that is very important that when Christ came, he did not take on the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham. I said, can you say something? He said, now I see, Rabbi. Now Rabbi, I see. I said, when the book is very clear on ideologies, what are you trying to do? You know, sometimes somebody teaching and gives you some information, you try to think wide. This also one plus 11, 11, 21, 111, you just be trouble. So the church, right? The moment you say church and temple host of heaven are involved.

So when Paul says in First Corinthians, First Timothy 3:15, that this is the house of God, you can't have house of God and not have house of God. Now let me ask you, how did Jacob know that was the house of God? He saw host of heaven. Right, that's it. So when we call ourselves the house of God or the temple of God, the hosts of heaven are here. So look at how heavenly things are. Your gathering is host of heaven. You're gathering. I'm not even talking about you directly before you start looking around when you're walking. So usually the temple of God says, I'm not alone. Now that's nice. So we have host of heaven nights. But Paul by Using host Seba. Seba is a ranking. It means it's not just a group, it's a strata stratification, different beings.

And of course Paul, interestingly, by using principalities, powers, might and dominion, he uses what we can call territorial language, cosmic language that deals with areas. Then that makes us pause. Now, let me say something that someone said to me one day and it really blessed me. And we're talking. So I said to him, I said that were dealing, we're talking about this was years ago, I'm not sure was early stages, I think of when we started sales commission. So I said to him, I said, but as an elderly minister. And I said, this conversation we're having, I said, it looks to me like what we ignored that Jehovah wickedness. People used to say that.

I said, I personally became a bit uncomfortable, you know, when we're talking about heaven and earth and all that it seems to be that Watchtower book, everybody's happy then dogs don't bite. And I'm very particular about the dog's part, so. And then he said, well, that the fact that somebody has twisted the truth and made an error out of it is the more reason why you should explain that truth that really blessed me. Because, you know, there's no way truth is. And it's perverted or. Yeah, perverted way will not look alike. So it's. It's left for you to properly explain it, you know. So I said that's true that you know, it's the way you will explain. Make it very clear. I like those days. He said that whenever you see that this is what I was saying.

He said, whenever you say outright error that is taken as truth. That take an extra attempt to make sure that people are seeing it, that you are not saying the same thing. 2Nd Timothy 2:15. You know, you make it clear that this is not the same thing, that we're not saying the same thing. You know, it's the same way that, you know, if you go to white government churches, I'm not saying white government churches are wrong. There are a lot of people that are born again and they have the spirit of God and then white government churches. So that's not. I'm not doing the classification, but there was certain things that were happening at some point where people would just decide to. Who was I even talking to? And we got to one point and I said something, that I know this.

Who was it? If I was someone that was talking, I've been to this place, so. And they now carry spirit, you know, carry spirit is. I can't say to Yoruba. So they will leave the realm, then they will stay in one house, you know, so, you know, they're not careful. Somebody, for example, now falls into a trance, you'll say, you know, so an excess is not a reason. But people fall into a trance. People, people. And they can do wet stuff. Yeah, you know the keyword. That's why someone like Kevin Higgins and what he did. I can tell you this, when I say this, I'm going to be misquoted. I don't really care that the Charismatic Church owes Kenneth Hakin a lot in helping that sanity of the written word. A lot.

I don't know anybody and I've said that in many places and nobody has faulted it. I don't know anybody in the last 500 years of the church who has been able to explain the ministry deeds, the things of the Spirit. Like I begin, I've not seen anybody. I've tried it. I've done my studies, I've done my research. No, that call it balance of. Look, this is the word. It's the word. I don't say word and spirit. It's still the word. But look, the word now says. Now this is just like that. 23 And Jeremy 13 we know by the message. So the message is always our check, discernment. But discernment must not discern you out of the practice. So when we come together and it's called the House of God, host of heaven involved. Hebrews 12:22.

Look, when we are come, that word is the present continuous. Which means that every time that we have an assembly of believers from your new birth experience. Because when you are born again, you are born into Zion. Every gathering is Mount Zion. Every gathering is city of the living God. Every gathering is undercover angels. Every gathering is kind of witnesses. Every gathering has host of heaven. Every gathering. Now you may decide not to see it, just like Jacob said the Lord was here. I did not know. You may decide to ignore. You may decide to even mock it. On the day of Pentecost, they were calling them names. You may decide to when God became flesh. And they were calling me fornication. Born of fornication. So you can. You may even put irreverence to it.

But it doesn't change the fact that what is happening there involves heavenly realities. It's what it is. So in this series, I will say it again. The objective as we move away from the introduction and we go into the Details. And when I say details, I want us to break it down to this application and we see it. That's why I'm very careful. The next phase, I've not gotten into it yet. I'm looking at somewhere we can just dedicate some data and face it, the production of that particular site and understand it at once, you know, I hope it will happen very soon. So that idea, or that idea of the Old Testament is done away with is a major flaw. Not knowing what the Old Testament is a major flaw in modern theology. A major flaw.

Now the extreme carelessness is for some to say, okay, which means that we can use the Old Testament anyhow. I call someone and say, don't use it anyhow. You are going to do what the Pharisees were doing when Paul said that they did not know what they are affirming or teaching. You don't know what it is. It's not by rushing into some to say that I can see this spirit of Ayato King will calm down. Do you understand? So the host of heaven are involved. So began to look at Prince Fascist power might dominion. Paul. Everybody in the Greco Roman world knew that they are not the same thing. If I used to think because I was in a prayer group and we used to pray, you know, and all that I was in my secondary school, we used to have this prayer.

In fact, I remember there was this particular. I will never forget it. A principal came and banned the fellowship. I said no more fellowship. That if you just go to the school chapel. He said even the school chapel, that it will just be. It will be organized. He just gave a rule. And the man was a new principal and he could speak very, you know, very lovely English. And that's how the brethren came together. And we're going to pray, you know, and we said that those things looked. We didn't have as much light. We said that really that in this school that we have authority over the principal. And we're saying it so I remember all the prayer points say we had Psalm 16 Let God arise, let the enemies come. Let God arise and his enemies. And when we are singing that song.

If you have. If you are a witch, you will manifest so. Those are always very hot. They've got that right. And his enemies be scattered. They've got that right. And then we are praying. Behind every principle there's a principality. I will never forget that when I heard I said cool. Yes. That today we declare. Let me say something to you. That principal didn't use One term they removed him. So I said, why? You know and when See now, of course what happened there? You're asking me something that the gospel will deal with it. It's simple. You don't have to have the exousia. No, no, no. Just know that you are seated on high. That was all we're saying. We didn't know. I didn't even know what we just said. We can remove this man.

When I went to Oliver College, our vice principal now told me that I hear you are the one that come to come and confuse the students and all that. He said, look that you will never come back to this school again. Was a Friday. I said, I will come back and I won't meet you. They removed her. I didn't have light like that. I just. Maybe Joshua believe. I think I say where we use our words. But the point was we knew that this is not ordinary. Why would you come and say we should if fellowship that have been existing for how many years just said no, we should stop. The man just say we said no. They just do chapel that you bring somebody. Maybe now he's not even born again. We need to go for house kids go for political evangelism.

Now we go guy say, oh, We held our hands and were fasting. Tell these school boys we're fasting. Say we take authority over this place and all that. And sometimes we do fasting for Muslims. And we just been asked that prayer. One time secondary school, we did a prayer chain. And so that prayer chain with me, we pray 24 hours a day. So we now have two. Two people who pray together three hours secondary school. And then, you know, there was one guy they paired me with. The guy was on my wall yesterday. And the guy, he doesn't stop praying. His wife will say. I said, boss, it's three hours they gave us. Let me give. I will just be 24 hours. Because we are going to take on this thing.

You know, if the church should see that prayer is where we dispense this. There is no better way to dispense spiritual authority like prayer. Prayer. I will just take authority in the place of prayer. So Paul breaks it down and he says that they're stuttered. I used to. I would say that I used to think are the same thing. When I read Triumphant Church said no, they're not. And I used to that thing, you can't really see it. And he broke it down, said no, they're not the same. Of course, in studies today, what I've seen that really that it's Paul using the modern then, sorry, the Greco Roman language to explain that. See the way this is structured, where you have dpo, where you have area command, where you have this one and you have jurisdiction, that is how the whole sovereign are.

I wish you guys this one. You see, one is for the night, one is for seasons, one is for day. That brings to our mind that we must know what we are engaged with. You can't be spiritually illiterate. That's too sad. You can't be spiritually illiterate. So he breaks it down into different things. I'll just give you a hint. If I take it on tomorrow or sometime, it's me. But look at 2nd Kings 17. A friend of mine who pastors abroad, he sent something to me on this text and I just showed him my notes. I. I just said, see my notes? I was going to teach this. I said, oh wow. I said, yeah, said, see this? I was going to explain this in the service. 2Nd Kings 17.

So if the death of Jesus could, you know, when he said all authority in him, heaven and earth, pay attention. And he says all the nations. Then Paul says he dealt with principal and powers which have to do with locations. Which means, as it were. Let me try and say this, and I'm. I. I'm not sure, I don't want to take it literally, but it's with as it were, the death of Jesus in the Spirit covered every space. Like in the three days he went around the old earth. Right Now I'm not talking literally now, but I'm talking the kind of authority has it only three days, the whole earth.

Then he comes to the church and he says, go and preach the basa, the gospel, the huajileon hewage Leon is the news of a king, a new king or new territories that have been claimed. So in 2nd Kings 17, watch this. And verse 29. He says, how be it every nation made gods of their own and put them in the houses of the high places. The Samaritan had made every nation in their cities wherein they dwelt. Now listen, the word house there is the word beath b a y I t h from where Jacob came up with the house of God, Temple of God that every nation, which is the word goyi g o y goy now when you come to New Testament, the word nations refers to people who are bound by tribe, language, culture, practice. Right? Now pause.

Let me say something very carefully. Anything that binds people, that makes people unite, habit thinking pattern is preferred. Anything that binds people such that they think alike, talk alike, reason alike is supernatural. Are you here? That just binds them, that unites people. Now of course, if I go to school and we all study medicine, I mean we all went to study medicine, but what now begins to unite us? We are thinking alike, we're reasoning alike, you know, we now have a culture, it's supernatural. So the word goi g o y the New Testament calls it ethnos, which is nations, nation is not necessarily just tribal as touching native language. It's also people bound by culture, bound by actions. That gives identity. Now notice what he says here. Every nation made gods of their own.

I will explore the Hebrew word for us later, but let's just stick with Elohim for now makes gods. Now look at 30 wherein the men of Babylon made Succoth the north, the men of Cuth made Nagal, the men of Ammath made Hashemon, the Arvites made Nibaz and Tahatak, the Shepherdites bought their children to fire to Adamalek and Anamalek, the gods of Shavim. Now so notice that there was like something unique to a people worship what they worshipped what they revered. One of the things, one of the ways to identify a supernatural being is something is being revered. Let me tell you one that you may not see quickly self, just half a generation as you will or a place that says, well, whatever you say is right. I mean it's you speak your truth. How do you feel?

You know, one of my studies in human rights, when I saw the depth of human rights and I say it means someone can just wake up and say this is what this right to me begin to worship yourself. Since they made it and called it so, they call it something. It binds them together, you know, that takes us to where now Genesis 11, right? Binds them together. They are just united. You just think alike. The only unity that should happen is to worship Jehovah. Yah, that's the unity he gave. That's the one flesh, one spirit. Anything contrary, you are discerning a worship of an host of the host of heaven. Let's see something quickly. Jeremiah, chapter four. I think I read the last time how the word idols you don't learn was all over New Testament books, huh? We did.

Now we'll take it again. Anyway, before I say I didn't, not today. It says here, take heed therefore, good heed to yourselves, for you saw no manner of submitted on the day that the Lord spake unto you in hob out of the mouth out of the midst of the fire, lest you corrupt yourselves and make you a graven image. The submit of the figure of any figure, likeness of male or female, so which means includes human beings, likeness of any beast that is on the earth, likeness of any wing fowl that flies in the air, likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the sea. Why? Because we know that in Genesis they were what? Indicators of what are you here? Aha. So look at this.

Now it says in verse 19, lest thou lift up your eyes unto heaven. So. Which means that what he's describing here are heavenly things. Are you following this? Are you here? You know, lift up your eyes to heaven doesn't mean to look up. It means to see in the spirit world, lest you lift your eyes to the spirit world. And when you see the sun, the moon and the stars, and all the host of heaven, the Seba Shemayim, he says you should be driven to worship them and serve them, which the Lord thy God are divided to all the nations under the whole heaven, which is Genesis 11. We'll take it again later that where he gave them up and he began to name. They will name it in. In Yahweh, he's the one that gives you his name. They name it.

So he says that nations, geographical areas do have such beings, people in places. Do you notice that? Have you noticed that places unite people? It does, because that is a perversion of the original of the earth. It unites people. Somebody will just leave Nigeria, and then you go to another country. And then somehow it begins to behave like them. You would know when he starts to talk like them, he begins to even like the food that he never liked. Begins to reason and all that and all that, you know, and begins. Begins to affect his thinking. And he says, actually, don't. I don't. I don't believe in this anymore. So why? I don't. I don't believe in prayer like that. I just believe that, you know, he thinks it's a natural phenomenon. It's not.

When we say human beings are a pool of influence, we're not talking naturally alone, right? Man's influence on another man is supernatural. You pick up a habit, you pick up what's going on. So you've seen here that they were in different nations. And we have the major one in the Old Testament is called baal that eventually in the epistles, I mean. So the fourth gospel is called Bezelhub, prince of devils, you know, the baal. BAAL is very prominent in the Old Testament. In fact, many Old Testament authors use the BAAL concept to see how it perverted what God was doing in the earth. We'll get to that as well.

So the New Testament writer, when he uses principalities and powers, he is referring to geography, cosmic geography, like some theologians will say, he's using the cosmic geography or geographical or supernatural things in their different geographies. Let's see, some of Peter says, first meter three. First meter three. And verse 22. Who is gone to heaven is on the right hand of God, angels and authorities, powers being made subject to him. Now, if I break that down, angels there will be hosts of heaven, right? Authorities and power, principalities and power, might and dominion. Peter recognizes that the death of Jesus captured that. So Paul, quick one, pick on the other ones tomorrow. Now is dealing with philosophies, thinking doctrines. Galatians 4. So, you know, imagine if you want. So look at me, guys. If you want to do.

If you want to help, only change the attitude or the attitude generally in life. What will be your first step? Supernatural, right? Right. You pray, so prayer becomes your first step because you know that man is a supernatural. It's a spiritual being. Galatians 4. Now, verse one. Now I say, before we get to verse one, let's let me read verse eight. How when you knew not God, you did service to them, which by nature are no gods. But now, after you have known God, rather known of God, how turn you to the weak and beggarly elements. Where unto you desire again to be in bondage, you observe days and months and times and years. Now some versions have not done us good job there. That word elements in the Greek is the word stoitia S T O I C H E, I A. Right.

Stoichia interestingly used it in verse three. Even when were children were in bondage under the elements of the world. Stoichia, let's view different places where. Where that word is used. Story chair. I saw something that because I checked strongs a few days back, I checked it again. Strongs now gave it different meanings. And I said this is misleading because by the time you see how this word is used, you will come out with no other reason than what we have been saying. Colossians 2:8. Beware lest any man spoil through philosophy and being deceived after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world. Rudiments, not after Christ. So philosophies, rudiments. Colossians 2 that one rudiments is the word story. Cheer again. Colossians 2, 20. Excuse me. Wherefore if you be dead with Christ? From the rudiments of the world.

The word stoichiome is also used. Look at second Peter 3. 10. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise. The elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also, and the works. So he says, there are elements in the heavens to a chair. The works wherein shall be burned up. I've told you that this is not just like when Jesus said the sun, moon and star that has nothing. The elements in the heavens is what host of heaven. Right? Aha. That's not a thinking that one day your son will just become almost blue. I don't mind it become green or something. The star is blue. Verse 12.

Now it says, looking for and hasten unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements to a chair shall melt with fervent heat. The elements. Now Hebrews 5. And verse 12. For the time when you ought to be teachers, you need that one. Teach you again. That was the first stoicher of the oracles of God. First principles. The word there is stoichia. Now, stoicher means an arranged astral order. A non. In fact, it certainly calls it metaphysical order. It's not physical. It's called astral deities. Spiritual beings is used by astrologers, this language. That's why Paul readily talks about months, days and years astrologers. So it points a lot to astrological beliefs and practices. A bit of that we'll get to.

It is in that Matthew 2, the men from the east, when they form, followed the stars. That is a stoichia. A stoichia. So I'm going to take the liberty to read some translations for us. That I put. I just copied them. Some translations of that same phrase. Of that. Those texts that I read earlier on. Colossians 2 and 8. Colossians 2, 8. Okay. New International Version calls it the elemental spiritual forces of this world. Elemental spiritual forces. You look at Jesus. Rudiments of this world. New International Version says the elemental spiritual forces of this world. The new living translation says spiritual powers of this world. Talk about philosophies, though. Spiritual powers of this world. English Standard Version. Elemental spirits of the world. Elemental spirits of the world. Berean Standard Bible says spiritual forces of the world. Spiritual forces of the world.

The Berean Standard Bible. King James. Readiness of the world. See, see Him. Amplified Bible unfortunately just says elementary principles of this world. Too sad. The Old man Christian Standard Bible says elemental forces of the world. American Standard Version Rudiments of the world. God's Word Translation and I noticed that the closer they are to modern translations, they just use very bland language. Elements of this world now, the majority standard Bible calls the spiritual forces of the world. New American Bible Elemental powers of the world. Elemental powers The New Revised Standard Version says elemental spirits of the universe. The world. English Bible Elemental spirits of the world so no doubt these translations were able to bring out the word stoichia in a wider application. Look at verse 20, Colossians 2.

Colossians 2 the new reverse Standard Version says if with Christ you die to the elemental spirits of the universe. The next Bible says the elemental spirits of the world Rudiments Elemental spirits of the world the majority standard Bible says spiritual forces of the world Good News Translation Ruling spirits of the universe so salvation is deliverance from the ruling spirits of the universe. Contemporary English Version Forces of the universe have no power over you. Forces of the universe. Christian Standard Bible Elements of this world Too bland. Okay, I've already read the English Standard Version. Elemental spirits of the world so no doubt the authors of scripture intend that we lead philosophies from a spiritual standpoint. Ideas, traditions that anything that points you away from Christ is supernatural. Anything that points you away from Christ. Look at Galatians 4.

Let's run through that because it's our time. Galatians 4 that verse 9. After you have known God, rather known of God, you turn to the weak, beggarly elements. Stoic chair. I read some versions. Old man Christian Standard Bible says weak, bankrupt Elemental forces. Contemporary English Version says weak and pitiful. Powers. Powers. Good News Translation Weak and pitiful. Ruling spirits. Ruling spirits. Spirits. New Revised Standard Version Weak and beggarly Elemental spirits. So what we are dealing with is not just a thinking pattern. Well, that's the way the guy thinks. That's how we want to think. That's how I want to reason and all that. He says, no, there is a spiritual force that brings forth so philosophies, ideas particularly that deal with a man's worship pattern. His attitude for or against are supernatural in nature. So by now listen to what the core issue is.

By using the word rudiments of the world, Paul brings in the host of heaven narrative. You can break that down into to principalities and powers. So in philosophies, practices, belief systems, we have supernatural context to it. I mentioned the other day that false doctrine teaching of scriptures is equally supernatural. That's not even difficult to see because in Galatians, I mean Genesis chapter three, the first act of the Divine one or divining one, sorry, which is the Nakash is to twist what God has said. As God said, you shall not surely die. So contradiction of who Jesus is a supernatural thing. John says it's the spirit of the Antichrist. So our general approach therefore in ministry when he says wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principles and powers.

In Second Corinthians 4, verse 3, he says, though we walk in the flesh, we war not after the flesh. The weapons of our warfare are not canal, they are not canal means they are spiritual. They are mighty through God to be pulling down strong. I've seen some of our world people which is cool. They say no, warfare is not about evil, it's about thought pattern. Warfare is not about spirits, it's about thought patterns. And I asked them that thought pattern, where did it come from? That thought pattern is from the stool chair. So which means that those spiritual beings that fell from the grace of God, as it were from the purpose of God in earth, they are now running the earth in some areas through philosophies, ideas. When you detect unity and worship or anti worship of God, a supernatural being is descend.

It's not 99%, it's 100%. So we cannot approach it in the flesh. We have to understand. I'm not going to be the core of this. I'm just touching it briefly just to show you that the New Testament offer did not in any way. They did not remove the supernatural war context of scriptures at all. They retained it in all their writings. Continue tomorrow morning at 7.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/