So you have Genesis 1, and we've done the study to say Genesis 1 will be three things in the same way. How did the other interpreters. We have interpreters. Let's assume without conceding that Moses didn't have a hand in Genesis 1 and 2. Let's assume, even though I will concede that Moses had not as much, I think from all observation, there was a lot of editing in the first. I mean, the first two chapters, but let's leave that. So Moses will now be talking about this. Now he's an interpreter. So he is going to interpret this to his audience in the Exodus. And in Exodus 20, he says he talks about the Sabbath in verse eight, Keep it holy. Six days you labor and do all thy work. Then the seventh day is the Sabbath of the Lord.

Then he says, in heaven, in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested the seventh day, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and allowed it. Now let's assume, without considering, that he's saying that after God worked, he rested. That's a bit ludicrous. It means that either he was tired or he needed it, or he took you know, it's not about tired and needing it is the fact that he has completed his work and he has completed his job. And again, it looks funny really, because what God rests from is okay, he completed the earth, he rested, but he dropped that one for supernatural things, you know. Then say, well, he finished the earthly one, but he didn't finish the supernatural one. You know, Again, all those things become confusing.

But when Moses said this, wherefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it? Which means it's a holy information we have in Genesis 2:1 3. Now afterwards in Deuteronomy chapter 5, when the same thing will be interpreted Jeremiah chapter 5 in verse 12 Keep the Sabbath day. Verse 13 Six days you labor and you do all the work. Seventh day, verse 14. Then he says in 15 Remember that you were a servant in the land of Egypt, and the Lord had brought thee out ends through a mighty hand by stretched out arm. Therefore the Lord had commanded you to keep the Sabbath day. So you are, you have Genesis 2 is synonymous to the redemption in the Exodus.

Later writers who will interpret the same thing, for example David, Psalm 24 he says, the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof the world and they that dwell therein. He founded it upon the seas and established it upon the floods. Who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord, who shall stand in his holy place? So he calls what God made his hill, and he calls the holy place. Holy place is temple information, temple language, no doubt holy place. Now we also know that in the Genesis command, be fruitful, multiply, replenish the earth. Genesis 1:27 or 26 to 28, which wasn't speaking to any person specifically, it was mankind. It was repeated Genesis 9:1 to Noah, Be fruitful, multiply, replenish the earth.

Of course, when you read what was equally said to Abraham Then Genesis 22, verse 17 I'll bless thee, multiply and multiply thee. And you know and you have to Jacob to so it means that the covenant God gave to Abraham, Noah, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob had to do being fruitful and multiplying. And so Psalm 24, verse 1 says the fullness thereof. So if we are seeing synonymous things we've done the fact that when Moses also the number seven and all of that when Moses completed the tabernacle, the same words were used for the tabernacle about you finished it. So that means interpreters of this definitely were not referring to material world creation was the material world use here, of course, but the original language the original message is a supernatural world.

So the Exodus, the building of the temple and the creation story are synonymous. Also, Noah in a new creation, Genesis 9:1, after chaos and destruction, is also called to multiply and replenish the earth. So these interpretations do not leave us in any doubt that the original audience of Genesis 1 and 2 are talking about God's new creation or God's creative activity. Generally. The the creative activity of God is redemptive in nature. It's a salvation story. It's a temple building of temple story. Sorry. So later interpreters have left us with no doubt that the creation story is a temple story. Now again, the use of heaven and earth, which we have looked at over and over again, speaks of the temple. As it is in heaven, so is on the earth. Temple the kingdom. Whatever you bind on earth is burning. Heaven, Temple.

I call heaven and earth. Exodus Jeremiah 30:15 to witness to this day temple in Revelation 21 and it says, A new heaven and a new earth tabernacle temple. So Latin interpreters have left us with no doubt that what was being done in Genesis is a temple story or a tabernacle story. The use of Luak or Menuka both ways rest or rest place that replaced the Shabbat seventh rest, seventh day of rest by the latter interpreters also leaves us with no doubt that we are dealing with the rest place of God. The word Shabbat, where you have rest, is used in Genesis 2, verse 3, and in Genesis 8:22. Seed and harvest will not cease in Exodus chapter 5 and verse 5. And this will help us to have no conflict where there should be none.

Conflicting with scientists trying to argue the age of the earth, and so on so forth. Leaves us mostly dumbfounded. Exodus 5 and 5 he says, Behold, the people of the land now are many, and you shall make them rest their burdens. Rest from their burdens. The word Shabbat is used there. Exodus 12:5. No, no, leave it at Exodus 5:5. So that one is used consistently to refer to something stopping. And what stops? The question should now be, what will have stopped in Genesis 2, verse 1 to 3. Genesis 1, verse 2 talks about the earth was without form and void, and there was darkness. All right. Speaks about the waters of chaos. So Genesis 2, verse 1 to 3. What will stop will be the chaos. That's why that story is used to explain the bondage in Egypt.

The bondage also stops the calamities judgment, where calamity, judgments sin when they are put to a stop. Its creation. It's God's Creation theology all over again. Labor in Egypt stopped, which is chaos, slavery. So this now brings us to what the writer of Hebrews meant about entering into his rest. Of course, rest to the New Testament author also doesn't mean siesta or taking a nap or something as funny as that. Rather, he says in verse four, in Hebrews chapter four, he says, God did rest for me, his works. Now his works there will refer to taking care of the chaos in Genesis 2:1, 2. You see, we also usually forget that what we see in Genesis 1 into 2 came out of the chaotic situation in Genesis 1, verse 2.

So the work of God will be light out of darkness, a home out of chaos. That is his work. That is what ceased. What sees is not his house. What seizes is the chaos. So when he says that, just like God, I mean all the works, foundation of the world, he says God did rest from his works. Then this writer says in verse 10, he that is entered into his rest would not have. I mean, has also ceased from his own works. Now from his own works will be what? In that order, of course, this is salvation story. It's also made from chaos and bondage and all that. That's what is intended here. It's not speaking against works, it speaks for works. Paul will say, we are his workmanship. Ephesians 2, verse 10. Created in Christ Jesus unto good works.

The word creates comes in again, of course, in the Greek is the word poema P O I E M A, which is. We said create doesn't mean out of nothing. Create means to bring something, to be more purposeful and all of that. So what we have in Genesis, we mustn't miss it, because New Testament theology is built from the foundation of the world. What we have in Genesis is that Genesis 1 and 2 is God's rest, place in motion. Again, just to remind you that the use of land continues through Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Israel, up to the New Testament. And the use of land is to show, to reveal God's plan for the earth. That was said to Abraham, said to Isaac, Jacob, and of course, definitely to Noah and to Israel in the Exodus.

So the issue in Genesis 1:2 will be that God makes the earth. And the most special place will be Eden. I mean, everybody knows that Eden seems like a special place on the earth, which I said, therefore. Let me put out what I put here. I said, Eden, therefore, is the destination of the whole earth. Eden is where everything is headed to the man he made, he put in Eden. God himself is right there. Eden becomes the Destination. So what is in Eden? For us, Eden is temple. Eden is a mountain on high. All right, it's a Mountain. Ezekiel 28, verse 1 and 2 describes. No, no, let me take that back. Ezekiel 28, Verse 12 to 14 talks about Eden as the mountain. Psalm 24, verse 3 and 4. A holy hill is mountain. Isaiah will call it.

The Lord come upon his mountains. So the mountains hidden is his dwelling place, a sacred place. Something else is in Eden. Host of heaven. The hosts of heaven are there because it's heaven and earth in the same place. The hosts of heaven are there. That's why we have the nakash, that supernatural being. In Genesis 3, verse 1, the host of heaven are there. Genesis 2, verse 1. The heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. So Eden becomes the final destination. Let's see how the Book of Revelation places it. Eden is God's kingdom. Hidden is eternal life. So we've said before, eternal life is a place. Eternal life is a possession. It's in a person. It's an experience. It's all synonymous, and no one contradicts the other. Revelation 21, Verse one. A new heaven, a new earth, the first heaven.

And the earth is gone. God's tabernacle is, you know, in place. Revelation 20:2, About 21, 22, say, I saw no temple therein. The Lord God Almighty and the Lamb at the temple of Revelation 21 and 2, I saw no temple. I saw no building. He said, the Lord himself is the temple of the place. The city needs no sun, no moon, no shine. For the glory light it. Lamb is the light thereof. That shows you that any theology that talks about God destroying the earth, and it's absolutely not biblical, what God will do to the earth is to renew it. And what he's doing is making it habitable as his own Place. Revelation 22, verse 1. He showed me a pure river of the water of life, as clear as Christopher was not of the throne of God and of the Lamb.

Throne of God again is host of heaven. Language. Okay. And the Lamb in the midst of the street of Eden, on either side of the river, there was the tree of life. So again, these writers are letting us see verse 3. There shall be no more curse. Right? No more curse. That's Eden, right? Because the curse takes place outside Eden. No more curse. The throne of God and of Lamb shall be in it. His servants shall serve him. So no doubt, Eden is the final destination of the whole earth. So as it was at the beginning. So that's why New Testament Writers. It says we labor to enter in. I was going to talk about some later on. We're there. We're not there yet. Language of both Jesus and New Testament author. We're there. We're not there yet.