Second Timothy 3, 16. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. Is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And that's the Old Testament, what we call today as the Old Testament. So we ask the question, does the New Testament author retain the context of the Old Testament? The concept of the Old Testament, we said, has a supernatural worldview. A worldview that just by the phrases when you say, for example, the law of Moses, we are yet to look at that. The law of Moses. Look at Hebrews 8, 5. It says he was shown a pattern or he gave a pattern. The temple. The writer of Hebrew was talking about the building of the temple.

Because everything about the law of Moses around the temple, he said that it was a shadow or a type or let's say an example, use the word suppose of heavenly things. This is an example. Then when you look at that, it's definitely means that what we call the law of Moses is to condense the supernatural world into a physical doctrine. So the very essence of the law of Moses is the supernatural world. Everything that Moses wrote about was to bring the unseen world in what you can call a parable. Parable, parabola in the Greek. But the Hebrew, you know, calls it where we have proverbs. That's what the Hebrew is. You are using an example.

I said that in the second service that the New Testament and the Old Testament, the way they written each other was an example to demonstrate, to illustrate the supernatural world. So a core of the law of Moses is the illustration of the supernatural world using natural things. So if the New Testament books are built upon the supernatural world of the Old Testament. Okay, the question again is that does the New Testament author retain that context like we have said? And I started this in the last few services, that where the New Testament is silent. Now a basic law is where the Bible is silent, be silent, you know. And I was having this conversation, was it this morning. And we're talking about myself some friends where it's about time. We're boarding to come back to Lagos.

So we're now talking about today's issues that could never have been seen by Paul. Now imagine if you told Paul that, oh, I'm in Abuja now and we're coming to Lagos. Paul will say, oh, by the power of the Holy Spirit that you think that angel would be killed. No, no, I'm coming by. Yeah, I was saying that there are things that for example, Paul didn't think about. Paul didn't know anything called ivf. He didn't Know those kind of things. He could have transgender, you know, of course you can bring that under other things, you know. So we must be able to say, okay, that's why. Remember when we looked at the eight gems of study? Seven. Eventually. Eight. Eventually. Sorry, seven. We said the first one is that find the grammatical context. Look at the Bible as a text.

Find grammatical context, the grammatical structure. Number two. Number three, we said, what is the grammar? It's not as English as you think. They will say that. What is it? Interpreting a text usually is talking about another text. Even Genesis is talking about Exodus. The background of Genesis is Exodus. The background of Exodus is Genesis. They interrelate. You must read them together. Then we now said that, you know, having done that, what is theology there? You see, the step by step that I gave you is so important. What's theology there now? What does the New Testament say about it? Now that's very critical because you must find out how the New Testament interprets the Old Testament. You need that method to go into the mind of Paul, to interpret how Paul interpreted a writer from another world who did not foresee his own present world.

But there's a supernatural author, we have said, who in his providence provides his word ahead of time. So whilst we might not readily see those things transgender, for example, one of the major arguments of those who speak about gay homosexuality is the fact that when you look at the academic. We've done this study before and that's why we brought out the book, Excuse me, passed without the question. And I think we're going to have part two. I think the title is going. Pastor, I still have a question. I still have a question. That is the first one is not solving I was asking. So when I say those words to my friends, say, that's tough. Say, it's not really tough. You just need to know how the Old Testament was interpreted.

When you see it that same way, you will be able to take from the lips of Paul answers to these problems. It's like when Paul talks about idols in Colossi in Corinth, they are talking about basically Hud de Leon. That's what Hude Leon, Theo de Leon. You see it within the concept of worship. But by the time you look at how they interpreted idols, because in the time of Moses, there was one being the blessed. I don't wash it. By the time we got to Paul, the world had changed. Things were more modern. Now, if you know how Paul was able to read the scriptures together, then you will also come today's world and say this is what it is today, you know, and begin to.

So our ability to know how the New Testament writer or author interpreted the Old Testament is very critical. That's why it becomes counterproductive when we say the Old Testament is gone. We are under the New Testament all those phrases that really have no particular direction. But like we said earlier on today in the service, the first and second service, that the Old Testament was used for teaching Romans 15:14, 4, sorry said the things written at four times are for doctrine. And in that doctrine, we said it follows what we call topos pattern. And we develop the concept of motif. Motif is actually a literary word. It's not something strange, not a revelational word, just a motif that is follow the pattern. And we said oftentimes that what we usually call prophecies.

You notice that the person who is speaking did not intend that he was talking about Jesus. No. And this morning we looked at. I'm going to write more Genesis 3:15, the seed of the woman, the seed of the serpent, that when Eve and Adam heard that including the serpent, they were not thinking about Jesus. And if you took that scripture to Abraham, he wasn't thinking about Jesus. If you took it to David up till Isaiah, you're not thinking about Jesus because there are. Was used for a community of people, offspring, family, a compound word, a collective noun. So it couldn't have been talking about. That's why when Paul as it were. When you see something like this is the closest is Romans 16:20. He's talking to the church in Rome and says the God of peace will soon cross Satan under your feet.

And people usually think that a scripture, for example, let me give you one. And when he says. And in fact, when you look at the. This is another because I'm going to explain it a bit better. When you see how the Septuagint Greek and you see how they use that the word cross and the word you know, you have Psalm 110, verse 1. The Lord said to my Lord, sit around till I make all your enemies your footstool. Footstool and crush are two different things. They are not the same words. So like David is not reading Genesis 3:15. When it goes to some, David is talking like an army commander, a king, okay? But what we have in Genesis 3:15 is a seed, a particular race.

That's why if at all you are going to look at Genesis 3:15, what will come to your mind will be Matthew 23:23, you, brood of serpents, Matthew 3:7, which was said by John the Baptist, Mark 22:23, Jesus said it, which is you generation. So when he says seed is generation. So that scripture is not as messianic as it has been used. And I deliberately did that in the second service so that you know that it's the same way we misinterpret things like, okay, what is sin, what is this one? What's forgiveness of sins, and all that. So the Old Testament was doctrine. If something is doctrine in Ephesus doctrine in Thessalonica, it ought to be doctrine. Now the point is, how was it used as doctrine? That is what we should be labor or labor around and find out.

So we have said that does the New Testament author retain the context. Now what is old? We have said what is old is a cultural context. The cultural context is the Old Testament context of the books of the New Testament. And the cultural context is permissive, accommodating, progressive. What do you mean by progressive? Culture has been progressive. The culture has been progressive. You know, is that today we call kings in Yoruba land kabiesi, kabi means kabios, which means somebody that cannot be quite questioned because back then kings are meant to look like deities. I remember when were doing my dad's funeral, showing me where we're going to bury him. So he said we should go and look at the burial site. He said this burial site has been kept for about 600 years or something like that.

So they said, they now told me that your great grandfather somewhere there you go and say, I said, for what is there? They said this place said, because we don't believe they have died. They don't say kings died, they just say that they have transitioned somebody that I buried. But that was the belief. So. But you know, as today, you can't say you are curious, you can't be questioned. It's local government chairman that will do it. Look at Gobet Chapman. So you can see that even the use of king has changed. So culture is in transition all the time because it's man made. Same way that when brother Hagin will tell us that revelation knowledge is progressing, which means that the same way culture changed over time, he used what was available part time.

But we now go to the culture of the new creation, which is neither Jewish nor Jew nor gentile. And that culture is the culture of the spirit. Okay, so what is old in the Old Testament is the cultural context, not the instructions. So we must, however, very importantly, we must yet pass through the cultural context before we get to the message itself. So we must know the language. One important thing is that the language. Now, I'll mention this now and I'll just take notes. I hope on Saturday I'll get into it. I've never been able to get into this idol thing because I need to do some background that we have not done yet. Now, there are two ways to read Genesis. The book of Genesis.

The way many people think about the book of Genesis was that it was the first book ever written in this world that, you know, before time began, there was a book called Genesis 1 and 2. Now, the date line of the book of Genesis shows that there were other books in circulation. Some of them are legends today, some of them are myths, but they were in circulation theories. Now, if there were other books in circulation, the Bible is not the first book. There were many books before the Bible. There are many cultural cultures that existed before Israel was formed. So that means that if there was now a book written amidst other books. Listen very well. It means that Genesis, particularly Genesis, not just Genesis, but let's say Genesis is what you can call a polemic.