All right. Second Timothy, chapter three. Quick. Still unseated on high. Second Timothy 3, 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. I must mention this. I would say I explained what was on Sunday, on Monday, and there's an attempt to use this like a general rule across the board. But this is a very specific statement that has to do with. Notice that the context says about the fight of faith, about false teachers. That's really the context. Because if you are not careful, we say that every scripture must be this. I know. Not impose this statement on every text. We do that. Oftentimes we just take one general, one text and just run it through all the Bible.

But then the point is that either way, Paul is giving credence to the use of all scripture in teaching. So we have said that the. Let me say something. I said over time that before Jesus came the Old Testament books, as we call them, they were called the word of God. When he came. The Old Testament books were called the word of God when he rose from the dead and ascended. In Luke 24:25, 27:44-45, the Old Testament books were called the word of God in the book of Acts, which is the background of the epistles, because there is this attempt. Sometimes the epistles is the word of God. And all of that in the New Testament books, which we refer to as the Epistles. The Old Testament books were equally called the word of God.

So there was no time that there was a repudiation of any sort of the Old Testament books. And we have said that the context. We have different context of the Old Testament books, any book anyway. We have the cultural context, historical context. But theological context is what the two books, assuming we want to use that definition, they retain theological context, which means that. What do I mean by that? They are preaching about the same God. John 5:39. You search scriptures for them. You think you have to life. 40. They are daily testify of me. It's the same person. John 5:45. Pink men have come to accuse you, the fathers who accuse you. Moses, whom you trust, had you believed his writings, his words. You have believed my words writings, for he wrote of me. So which means that theology is the same.

Theology simply means study of God. So theology remains the same. Okay, Hebrews 1:1 God who has hundred times in diverse manner spoken time passed to our fathers in the prophets. I said, this last is spoken in his Son, so that retains theology. Theology is the same Hebrews 11:1. By the faithfulness of God. Sorry, faithfulness of God is a substance of things owed for the evidence of things not seen. So the elders obtained a good report by it. The we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, that things that were seen were not made of things which do appear. So theological context of the Old Testament is sustained in the New Testament writers. And if you look at it very well, Genesis becomes the context of Exodus becomes the context of Genesis. So which means it's the same God.

And in Exodus 20 and Jeremy 5, it talks about the God who made the heavens and the earth in Exodus, then he says that in Deuteronomy 5, the one who rescued them from bondage in Egypt. So that theology remains the same. And when you run through up to the Psalms, they talk about the God who rescued Egypt, redeeming God. So theology is the same thing. So if theology is the same, the cultural context is not the same, because even Israel evolved culturally. The historical context, of course, is not the same. That's why we came up with the concept of identification unifiers. And then.

So if it's not the same, but theology is the same, if theology is the same, that means that what is involved in theology of the Old Testament, mortal men, as it were, relate with an immortal God, a supernatural being called Yahweh Elohim. And if that is the context of the Old Testament, it therefore means that theological context is a supernatural world context. So because it's the same God. And one of the things we have also done over the years is to show that Jesus is not just a mere prophecy of the Old Testament, an active actor in the Old Testament books. And if that is the case, it therefore means it's the same Jesus. Right before Abraham, I am Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it and he was glad. John 8, 56 and 58, I will go all on that.

Matthew 28:20. Lo, I am with you always to the end of the age. If he is the same one, the Yahweh Adoni of the Old Testament, it therefore means that theology of the New Testament, the Old Testament is the same. Now the big question is, did it evolve? Sure. Is there a progressive revelation? Oh, sure, there is a progressive revelation that is sustained. But in the Incarnation we have a definite revelation, very definite, conclusive, that emerges with God's plan and purposes through Jesus. So having said that, it means that theological context of the Old and New Testament is the same now this is where the issue is. We need to weave through carefully and drive very carefully through the different worlds. The different world. Just like asked about the wars. You can't impose today's modernity on ancient text. And it's very. It's not.

It's just that's what some of these atheist scientists try to do. I asked him that. You are talking about some thousands of years ago. You can't use today's thinking like them. Or you can now start arguing there's modern thinking today is more superior. That's for debate. Another debate entirely. But theological context remains the same because it talks about the same God and Jesus at the center of it. Not just in New Testament worlds, but in the Old Testament world as well. From Genesis 3, 8 through to the Exodus, through to David, through to Isaiah. And all of that is right in the middle of it. Not as a man, but as the embodied Yahweh visible, relatable. And if that is the case, theology is the same.

The supernatural world context, which is theology of the Old Testament was sustained by the New Testament world or writers. So that's very vital. And if it is also very conscious that the Old Testament had. We have the idea is the Old Testament that uses much of this gods. I am very careful with the use of idols because idols are effigies and images and figurines. That's not the being itself. Idols are effigies. And when you see the new test, the Old Testament says they cannot hear, they cannot see. He's talking about the effigies, the figurines, the images. The images are usually man made. But when you look at the image of God is man. Genesis 1:26 28, which can see here a relatable and a living being. That's why.

So I think because of that lack of understanding of the images of the idols, images of the supernatural beings and let's call them sons of God whatever were host of heaven. Jeremiah chapter 4 concept. Because of the way later writers now refer to the images, not the beings themselves. We assume that the gods they worship were just physical objects. No, that's. Those are the images. Now when it comes to man, sorry to God's image is a living being. Genesis 2:7, Moses breath of life. And we see that it's a living being. Let's make mine in our image after. I like this. Genesis 1:26:28. He's able to reproduce. So and why is that narrative now? If you sit in that audience there are seeing A polemic, a counter narrative to their own world.

I say, well, God's Yahweh's own Selim, which is the word image, is a living being. Yahweh's own Selim is a living being, can relate with Yahweh, can relate with other creatures and all of that. So that the essence of showing Adam relatable in Genesis 2 is to make a distinction between Yahweh's image and other images. Is that very clear? You know, we said the last time that it's not only the Bible, that the Bible never existed in the Viking. There are other books that were in circulation, okay, that were being read or other materials. And so the Bible will take much language from those books. One, two. It will also seek to correct the things that they present.

So in verses one, what we have seen is a correction that this is God's own temple, it's the old earth, it's not a particular space in the earth. And he multiplies his image and his likeness across the earth, which is called his glory. So if that is the case, then the concept of idols can talk. Here is the images of the supernatural beings. The images of the supernatural beings. So that's a mockery by saying their Salems can't talk, can't speak, can't hear, can't relate. It's a mockery on their expression. Then you look at Yahweh's expression, he's a living being and more. So the effigies of these beings are usually created by men who seek to worship them. But Yahweh's own is made by him. That's why Acts 7:48 says he doesn't dwell in temples made with human hands.

Which means that his temple is what he built by himself, whether it's the earth or man, that is in his likeness and his image. Does that make sense? So does the New Testament world. Does it retain this context? Oh sure it does. It does in every way and every manner. So let's review something again. Zeremi32. And verse 8. I was going to look at something. Let me just check the way I arrange these notes. And verse 8, we have seen that the Bible answers the emergence of gods, which is called foreign gods in the nations of the earth. Job 32:8, when the Most High divided to the nation's inheritance, when he separated sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people according to the law of Jew of Israel.

Of course, when we look at the same chargings of that the self serving Bible Says when the most High displayed nations as kadashins, set up boundaries of the nations according to number of the angels of God. Now, I wanted to deal with the concept of the word most High. Okay, hold on a bit. Go back to the Second Kings. Put your hands in there. Second Kings six, the one the brother was asking about. And. Five. Sorry, Second Kings five, when Naaman came to Elisha. And now let's look at the extent this is. And he says to him, what does this represent? You must know the language now, because the ancient Israelites or the ancient Near Eastern culture had the belief that the world is a supernatural world. So anywhere that a being is worshipped, right, It's a supernatural space for them.

Intersection between the supernatural and natural and all that. So, but now why did he ask for the earth? I think that's a question we should criticize a little bit, Critique a little bit. Why did he say, let me just take the stand, or where you are. I know today some will do it. I mean, if you know the. What you call the. Some white garment churches, they do that a whole lot. And let's. Let me expand your thinking a bit. And you see that they would say, there's a land. So where they call it, where they pray. So they will take the sand and go and take it somewhere. And you know, very easily we say that.

But we look at the fact that there was a woman with the issue of God in Mark 5 that touched the hem of Jesus's garment and she was cured. Now if you stretch out Paul In Acts 19:11, you have. They took Abrams to the body of Paul. Now are you seeing there's a sustenance somewhere? And they took it to the body of Paul and took it to the sick and they were healed. Now go back to that Second Kings again and see what the guy did. He said, give me. Now, the first thing that happened was he came to. There's a whole lot of themes of New Testament you'll find there. He came to Elisha and said, I mean, the maid. Let's start from the fact that the maid asked him, you know, to go and meet the prophets, you know, and all that.