And as well within the context of the Old Testament, love your neighbor as yourself, which is you begin to look at yourself as a servant to others so that you use your life to serve others and you be sacrificial to become beneficial to others and all of that. So the core issue is that what we often read is there's no dietary law. And I showed you that. Oh, don't touch crabs, don't touch. It has nothing to do with the food. That's why you don't see that the result of it will be high blood pressure. It's about worship. It's abolition to the Lord. That's why, to the Lord. Abolition to the Lord. It's not. There was no doctor in the camp that was telling them anything about nutrition. It was not about food. Matthew 15. Are you telling something? Matthew 15. That's why wholesale.

Now usually people will dump those instructions because they say we're not under the law. How can you tell me not to eat? Okay, put your hand in and you know what I'm talking about. He said, look, verse three. Why do you transgress the commandment of God? By your tradition. Okay, tradition is how we now go about it. In verse 6, you have made the commandment of God of non effects by your tradition. Then he says, you draw close to be with your lips, but your heart is far. Verse 9. In vain they do worship, teaching for doctrines, the commandment of men. Now you'll be wondering, how can you call commandments of men that Moses said, don't say the Lord. No, it's the cultural context. Do you get it? That is the commandments of men, not the commandment of God.

So the commandment of God was communicated through the commandments of men or through the prism P R I S M, or through the, you know, construct of. Okay, we're talking about, since we're talking about worship and worship in this context deals with clothes. So we're going to use clothes to talk about worship. But culture is evolving. So we cannot stick to the culture, but we stick to the commandment. Is that very clear? Just like covering of hair, covering of head. First Corinthians 11. You know, Paul used a present day culture to explain submission to God and to your husband and spouse. But he wasn't sticking to covering of hair. He was talking about being in all things, in subjection. That's what he's talking about.

So it's again in Matthew 15 he says here and understand verse 11, not that which goes into the mouth defiles a man, but that which comes out of the mouth that defiles the man. This is Old Testament theology. It's not talking about defiling here is not health. It's about worship because I was talking about the real worship. So the food laws were about worship, not nutrition. Then he says in 17, do you not understand that whatever enters in at the mouth goes into the belly and is cast into the ground? And those things which proceed out of the mouth comes forth from the heart and it defiles the man? So the thing is about worship. He says out of the heart proceeds for evil thoughts, murders, adulterers, fornication, steps, false witness, blasphemies.

These are the things that defile a man to eat of washing hands, defile not a man. That is not the food. Just like, you know, Genesis 2 is not about 3. It's not about the fruit, it's about worship, it's about the heart. So in 1 Timothy chapter 4, so I said to us that a lot of gems of truth have been discarded because we've thrown out Leviticus, because we feel it's not relevant to us again. So it's not relevant to us again. But all New Testament authors went to the same books to teach if you take our materials to his righteousness. And we did deal with that, some of them in his wrath too. I believe in the coming days, I'm thinking of a material called the Law of Moses very soon. But I guess we'll just trust God.

Look at Hebrews 13 okay, I've said first Timothy four first. So they are not diademals. They are not. Just like they are not. It's not science. Not talking about nutrition. No worship. First Timothy 4, verse 3, forbidding not to marry, cause the doctrine of devils and seducing spirit. Verse 1. Forbidding not to marry, commanding to abstain from meat which God had created to be received with thanksgiving of them that believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good and nothing to be received. Now, when they say God commanded, he's not saying there's no book that he's referring to by the Old Testament. Every book should be taken with thanksgiving.

But just like Paul in First Corinthians 8 and 10 said, but if something is known to be offered to idols and you abstain from it, even if it's a coconhe, I like God very. The one I like is specially made. People have tried. There was somebody who used to make it used to be in this church, has left this church. Ever since then, the anointing has lifted. Sister Numarava has tried and tried for about seven years, eight, nine years. But wherever I thank you for doing it. But instead of us, to idols, the way he live, you know, even if it's your best food, he said, the moment somebody says this is to idols for the person's conscience. Is that not the same thing in Leviticus? So it's not diet, it's about worship, right? First Corinthians 10:2.

The moment somebody says because of the person, don't use your liberty to become a stumbling blow for somebody else. So Israel, who worship Yahweh will not participate in eating food offered to idols or practices of that nature because of the other nations that they were sent to. So what Paul taught in 1 Corinthians 8, 10 is directly from the law of Moses, his holiness. And you see the greatest height of holiness when it comes to our walk in this world. He's walking in love. When I say, let me take that back. The greatest expression of holiness is walking in love. We are not of this world. So in Hebrews 13, look at how the writer of Hebrews now describes food. Don't forget why we are going to this.

We are going to this at this length is to see that the ancient Israelites, the Old Testament, call it very supernatural, call it superstitious, but the way they talk about trees, land, just like the sun, they had a supernatural context to virtually everything. And they are correct because the earth is the Lord's. If this earth, guys, if this is God's dwelling place. It is more supernatural than you think. So first Timothy. Sorry. Hebrews 13. Look at nine. He says, Be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. For it is good that the heart be established with grace, not with meats which have not profited them that occupy them. Meat doctrine. Because at the core of the diet instructions or the food instructions is a doctrine in Acts 10. Acts 10.

Notice again that Peter saw it in a trance, in a vision, and he says, arise, kill and eat. So four footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and foul on the air, and came to say, kill, Arise. Rise, Peter, kill and eat. Verse 13. Not so. I've never eaten anything that is common or unclean. What God has cleansed, thou shalt not call uncommon. What was the point? The point was that there was now a man seeking after God. Cornelius. So look at what the food now meant. It refers to people. The food was about people. Not that the food is people. It was about people. So which means that in this vision you can see light again from Leviticus on Leviticus. That is not about the food, it's about people.

So now when you have a genuine seeker of God, that food dichotomy goes, so it's not about food. This is not about food. This is about worship. So if the Old Testament. Hear me well. If the context of Old Testament events was largely supernatural, such that everything was supernatural, it shows why most. Moses had to legislate. Because look at Egypt. Pharaoh was a God. He was a God. And because he was a God, you can't bypass the instructions he was given, whether it is commerce, whether it's justice and etc. Etc. So Moses now taking the people out of it will also include the laws that they follow or they comply with. So you have to become a judicial authority and all of that. Because the laws therefore will carry a supernatural world context, even though they will be related with natural effects.

And that is how we must go back and read the law. Let's see something. Look at First Corinthians 10, No, nine. Sorry. I mean, every time I read this text, I just laugh and smile. I wish we sat more in Paul's audience. See how these things. As a man. Now he's talking about taking care of ministers. Okay, the beauty of this is so critical. One second. Something I wanted to. Now it now says, okay, verse seven. Who goes to warfare? Who plants a vineyard and eats not of the food thereof? First Corinthians 9. And who feeds a flock and eats not of the Milk of the flock, say I. These things that a man ought see it not the law. The same things. For through the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle. That's verse nine. That's Jeremiah 25. 4.

The mouth of the ox, that chest. Come now, that's what you are going to read. That means God is giving you instructions about how to treat animals. That would be very funny. How can God write books about treating animals? And he says, look, animals be. I mean, is there an agricultural class? He says, doth God care for oxen? Do you think you read about oxen? That's what he's saying. Does God care for oxen or set it all together for your sakes? So which means he's using the oxen to tell you how to treat those who work for you. Simple carry box. And that goes into food loss. I mean we can say, is Moses a doctor? No, it's about worship. So it goes. And imagine having to have a wholesale reading of the law again in the context of what was being said.

The moment we know that the earth is God's rest place and theology of the Bible is, let's call it a restless context where God is building a place of worship, then we think differently. Like EW Kenya said, the Bible is in the light of redemption. There's also in the light that redemption is also God building his own house. If we know that, they will pay attention to all the details, including things that refer to natural things. Why? Because the earth is founded. We saw it last week upon the seas. Land is God's salvation plan. Psalm 24 were there, right? Verse 1, 2 and 3. So when he's talking about food, it's not about food. This is not about oxen, this is about worship. So when he says whatever you eat or drink, look at it. Romans 14 do all to the glory of God.

And we have seen so far, though we have not built much on it, that the glory of God is about the worship place, it's tabernacle. So in Romans 14, Verse 6, he that regards the day, regards not to the Lord. He that does not the day to the Lord. Regarding he that eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks. He that eats not to the Lord he eats not and he gives God thanks. Isn't it's about God, it's not about the food, it's about God. First Corinthians 8, No, 49. 10, Let's say 10, verse 31. Whether therefore we eat, verse 31, or drink or whatever you do all. Now what do we call the glory of God? We said the glory of God refers to his temple, right? His place of worship. Do all in service to God in worship.