So he goes, Elisha says, don't come and see me. Go to the Jordan, all those things. And you now come to New Testament that Jesus is baptized at the same Jordan. You, you go back a little bit and discover that Jordan was important in how Israel crossed over. It was the second Red Sea experience, and he crossed over. We've done this study before. Anyway, cross over to the Promised Land of the Old Testament. Then he now says, go and wash seven times. And those were the number of times that they circled. What do you call it now? Jericho. Before they got into the Promised land. Two things could happen there. One, a symbolism of their world, which means a full cycle.

Two, also is the fact that you notice that Rahab, when Rahab was taking the spice, we have heard what the God of Israel did, which means that those exploits, when God takes care of those idols, when he rescues Israel, it becomes news to others. Is that gospel? That's bizarre. It becomes news to others. So Rahab had heard it. Rahab did not believe when the spies came. She had heard the news before. She expressed her faith when the spies came. That is why James identified what Rahab did to the works of faith, not the believing itself. Are you following what I'm saying? By identifying with the believers, There are those who are spies from Joshua. She says she's a loyal, faithful believer of Yahweh God. So this guy is also likely to have hurt. All right, Like I said, it's a proposition.

But the key thing was, as soon as he was healed, of course, he judged. What everybody does should do honors with gifts. And why this is an important story was because in Luke 4, in talking to the nation of Israel or the Jews, sorry About Acts Isaiah 61 and Isaiah 58, across the board, he talks about the fact that there were many lepers in Israel, many. So how come it was a Syrian, a Gentile, that approached Elisha for healing? He heard, right? Did he show faith in it? Yes, he did follow themes of the gospel there. Those are things of the gospel. Now I'm making a connection quickly with the woman with the issue of blood, who also heard on that day when she touched the clothes of Jesus. Listen carefully, all that. We're doing it. But as was faith, she believed.

So she goes. I mean, he goes and he says, okay, does what he asks her to do, him to do, which is the first time you see a leper cleansed in that river, is the first time. There's no other story before that subscribes to that. So she now says to this, he says, okay, look at 15 second kings. Behold, I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now, therefore, I pray, take the blessing of thy servant. There is no God. That is the Old Testament confession of salvation because it's amongst other gods. Yahweh is God. That's salvation. Salvation to the Old Testament saints. Is not Jesus going to come and die for Your sins. But no, no, no. That wasn't available for them even to. That wasn't God's message to them. Okay, Was.

Yahweh is God above all gods. And that's what comes to concept of Most High. But he says, as Isaiah said, I'm not seeing anything. He refused. Verse 17 says, okay, shall not there then I pray thee to be given to thy servants. Two moves. Now stop a bit a look for when Jesus makes reference to verse 27. Can we call that a codified language? Huh? Why inquired this morning. Can we call that codified language that? He's not quoting our context when he talks about Naaman. He wants us to read the whole story, right? The whole story. The word is preached was the word preached are acted upon. Fine. So he takes the moon of the earth, burning of the earth for your servant will therefore offer. Therefore now notice what he called your servant. Burnt offering or sacrifice to other gods.

But unto the Lord he said to offer sacrifice. Is that worship? So the ancient Israelites and in the ancient world, the whole world is a place of worship. It depends on who you are worshiping. So he says, I'm going there and I'm going to worship another God. Now, why does he take the earth? It's like a point of contact at that point. That is how much his faith believes or can understand. So he takes it. He says, I'm going to go and I'm taking it with me to worship. What is he saying? I will be taking the temple of God from where you are to where I'm going to. Because where you are is a sacred area, a supernatural ground. It's a place of worship. And he has already said something. He says, there's no other God in all the earth.

So we have seen a theme of evangelism in worship. He has done to take. Now, what do you do when you believe the gospel? You take what you have right to where you are going. Am I right? That's a theme of the gospel in that background. So now this is where people miss it. The use of the sand, right? Is cultural. That is not theology. The worship of God in the earth is theology there. So now if you now take the sand. Now if it was the sand, for example, to be healed. Being healed is not the worship is a confession and action that proceeds afterwards. Worship. I would have no grouse. If anybody uses anointing oil or whatever they call olive oil and say, bring your olive oil, let's pray on it. Bring water, let's pray on it. Bring Sand.

Let's pray on it. Just that depending on the kind of auditorium it's not bring sand. And all places the works department, operations department will have to be working every 30 minutes except we start doing church outside. So sand just. But the man said this sand. Yeah, this sand is the power of God. Then you have crossed into worshipping items. You have crossed. You are now retaining an Old Testament cultural context. Because when you say the anointing oil is the Holy Spirit in a bottle, that is false doctrine. If I pray in this oil, you'll be healed. That's very biblical. James 5, they prayed over oil. Of course that context is also medicinal. Whatever it's not God will get anybody healed with anything. If you pray to rice and beans, you pray into cocoro bones. You know, coco bones is okay pizza.

But when you say this pizza is what? Because man is the image of God. Is that clear? Aha. So you're taking your attention of the plan of God and you are going to think that's where problems. So now there's something in here which I'll just look at. And this is where there is a where in the worship of God. In the old Testament, the first Psalm 126, just before this. And verse 19, This is David when he was having issues with Saul. Aside from 17, Saul knew David's voice and said, is that his voice, my son David? Is this voice my son David? David said, it's my voice, my Lord, O King. Therefore does my Lord pursue after his servant. For what have I done? What evil is mine? Now notice David's cry.

He said, now therefore I pray, my lord the King, hear the words of his servants. If the Lord has stirred thee up against me, let me accept an offering. But if it be the children of men, cursed be that they before the Lord, for they have watched what he said. For they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, go serve other gods. So he's saying that where matters where you have pushed me to right, he uses a land. This land is where I serve God. You have pushed me to a place to serve other gods. First Samuel 26. I'll read you from subsurgence and verse 19. You have okay. They have given me out today so that I cannot settle in the inheritance of the Lord, which is the place where he was.

So where I am now, this place is for other gods. So territories had to do with worship. Territories were worship places. Because in the mind of the audience here and this particular Time, the whole world was a supernatural space. So if you drive me to this place, you have driven me out of a place of worship. I'm in another place where it's also a place of worship, but not the place where. Where Yahweh is worshipped. So, and does New Testament retain that? Look at the Great Commission. The Great Commission is about people and places, nations. This is all the earth, so it retains that thing. That's one, two. Look at specific things when you come together. So when you come together is specific. When you come together and you find Paul warn us not to have fellowship with devils.

1 Corinthians 10:15 down to 19 with devils, places. When he says, when you eat, offers, I say the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. So that theology is sustained about the world being a supernatural space. So what we do gives identity to where we are, what we do. Why is this church? Because of what we do. And that identity is not the building. That identity is the supernatural context of what we are doing. So the New Testament, does it retain it? It does. Visibly so it does. So go to genesis 32. And verse 8, when the most High divided to the nations their inheritance. When he separated sons of Adam, said him. Conversely, the number of the sons of God. I think we've gone through this again and again. The numbers of the sons of God. Now, most high is a comparison.

Most high is a comparison. The first time we are going to see the use of most High is Genesis 14, most high. I'm saying this because we are going to look at some of the New Testament, Genesis 14, and that was Melchizedek. Verse 18, it says Melchizedek. Melchizedek. He was the priest of the Most High God because there were other priests. Priesthood has to do with worship. In fact, Priesthood has to do with worship. Egypt has its own priest. So of the Most High God. Here used by. Wait one second. Of the Most High. Most High is in comparison to other gods, like this is the Most High. Not to say that he's senior. No, the Creator God. So verse 18, verse 19, verse 20 and 22.

So you look at that word most holy in the Book of Exodus, majorly, it's for most High. Sorry, you have Most Holy. Majorly, Most holy. Most holy. But look at Numbers 24 and Verse 16. Now, if you pay very good attention, the context of this also has to do with idols, all right? And around the Gentiles, he says. He has said that heard the words of God and knew the knowledge of The Most High which he saw the vision of the mighty falling the trance and having his eyes open. So we have Most High Elyon E L, Y O N. Then you have at the background Deuteronomy 32:6 you just read but let's skip that and go to 2nd Samuel 22:14.

And Most High also has is when you are now talking about other nations one as a comparison number two where you are now referring to other nations who are in a call it Gentile territory. 2Nd Samuel 22. And verse 14 the Lord thundered from heaven and the Most High uttered his voice. The Lord thunder from heaven again, the supernatural world context is used here. Then look at the Book of Psalms where you have it majorly Psalm 7, verse 17. Let's just run through it together. Psalm 7, verse 17 I praise the Lord according to I will praise to the name of the Lord Most high. Psalm 9:2 I praise to thy name, O most high God.

Psalm 21, verse 7 Psalm 21 and verse 7 Psalm 46:4 Psalm 47:2 Psalm 50, verse 14 Psalm 56:2 Psalm 57, verse 2 I'll take it again Psalm 7, verse 17 Psalm 9, verse 2 Psalm 21 Verse 7 Psalm 40, verse 4 Psalm 47, verse 2 Psalm 50 Verse 14 Psalm 56:2Salm 57, verse 2 Psalm 93:11 Psalm 77:10 Psalm 78 Verse 17 Psalm 78 let's look at our Psalms 78 Psalm 78, verse 7:2. They sinned yet more against him by provoking the Most High in the wilderness. Now what did they do there? Was Was there idolatry in the wilderness? Yeah. And foreign gods. Verse 46. 56. Sorry. They tempted and provoked the Most High God and kept not their kept not his testimonies.