So to keep to his word, man will be the one fighting and defeating the gods. How? By the Hizar, by the help of God. But the person that you will see in the forefront will be man. So in the death of Jesus, well, he says, all authority is given to me. Now, God can't be saying that. He can't be saying that as God. He's saying that as a man. So in the above, the host of heaven today we have a man who is the Lord of hosts, right? And the second Adam, who in the garden of God sits over the works of his hands. That's the issue, you know, in this series we said, why did God become a man? What was the point? So that he can come and die and take blood to the Father.

The death of Jesus, Resurrection can be interpreted much more as conquest than pacifying angry God. It was conquest, a victory, an assertion of the ultimate plan and purpose of God, of man in the earth. So what happened from the cross to the throne was conquest. Jesus ascended the throne as Lord of hosts. No Lord of hosts is eternal. He ascended the throne as a man identified in the Lord of hosts and for mankind. So this gives us a pattern we're going to see in this series where we can assert that authority over disobedient spirits. Rebellious beings, call them angels in the earth today. So the battle is for the earth. Isn't that very clear? So when we sing the song, the earth is your rest, place, and we're saying we are preaching the gospel because the battle is for the earth.

That theology of God just packed the earth away, that the real issue is heaven. And he said, what about the heaven? It's the reward of the believer. So may you not lose your reward. So what's my reward? Heaven is your reward. I say, okay, so how is it my reward? So for thousands of years you just be worshiping God and that's your reward. You be in the clouds and just be singing and singing. God will help you. The earth is the issue. The earth is the Lord's. Psalm 24 and the fullness thereof. That's it. And he calls the earth his holy healed, his holy mountain. So look at first Peter 3. Is this same narrative of heaven that makes us have the Second Coming teaching. Jesus is coming to take us away. Take us away to where? It's coming.

To take you away to heaven. Because he's going to just throw bomb or banga into the earth. Look at 1 Peter 3. Now this one Peter 3 is a very difficult text. There are very few texts I've seen in my life. When I was covering this morning, I was still thinking, you know, it's a very difficult Text. Now this is really where I was going today, but I've given you enough reason to think 4 Peter 3 and verse 19 by which also he went and preached unto the Spirit in prison. Now look at verse 18. For Christ also has once suffered for sins and just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached unto the Spirit in prison.

Now what is Peter saying here? Like I said, it's a very difficult text but I gave you a background so that you can think. We're going to look at the three possibilities of this text. What could this text refer to? It's very difficult because of the different ways you can look at it. I have a solution to it, but I won't say it today. What exactly happened here? Don't forget that in the context of Peter here, he's saying being put to death by the flesh, verse 18, but quickened by the Spirit, by which he went to the Spirit in prison. So we have three possibilities about ancient, I mean, well known, should I say church. Father Martin Luther once said that it's one of his most difficult texts. And I can say the same thing because it's quite.

It presents a lot of tendencies that could be met. So the first one is that the first interpretation that can be given to it is that Jesus went to what you can call eddies or hell and he went to preach to those who live in the time of Noah and bring them to salvation. Now this is making me smile because I had a friend, I still have a friend, you know. So his dad, I remember his dad passed on and then we used to find. So the dad was a Christian at some point. Christian, Christian. They decided to read books into the occult. Then I think after a while he started to read all these books by this Latter Day Saints where they will say that Jesus is angel and stuff like that. So I used to read those books.

In fact, even this my friend started saying that I should look at this book that has some sense me, I just saw that a book after Paul, the one by Paul. I don't understand. This was 1994. 94, Yeah. So when did that pass on? You know? And he passed on. Suddenly this, my friend really was depressed apart from the loss of the Father. It was the fact that he wasn't sure that the Father was in heaven. So he now began to study. I remember this was this very important because he now began to study that is it possible for A man after he had died. Hebrews 9:27. Without doing this. When he died after this judgment. I beg that tell people to be born again. Leave that so not telling People died tonight.

Those who plan to be born again at 12 died at 11:55. What kind of preaching guys, let's wait till then. So he now began to study. But I think then because he really got depression now all of us had to somehow it inspired us. We're. We now started to really study what he was saying that he's supposed to somebody that died that since is there a contact between those who are passed on they just go. So when I look at text that. That Matthew 27, you know, were there interactions then Did Moses and Elijah literally in a vision show up in Matthew 17 those questions are coming, you know. And then because he had gone wide that it's possible for the dad. Then he now got into supplication. What I'm talking about happening about one year. We were talking scriptures. Talking scriptures.

He says, is it possible that somebody had already gone to hell? He thought the dad went to hell. What bailed him out was when I reschooled him on the doctrine of the salvation of God. That was what built him up. He was really depressed. You know, I don't know whether I think it's not good to think somebody that excuse you has gone to hell. But you don't care. It's not a good thing that hell. And professor, there's no fire ahead. What difference does it make? Is that not fire enough? So when I began to study is it possible to praise somebody? I'm telling you this really got all his friends to really study this thing. I'm talking from 2096. 26 Or 95. I think he's 96 because Larry was around then. That's from 96. That's 27 years ago.

We were where was the abode of the dead Sheol. I was saying Jesus, do you study all of this Sheol Hadith, there's another Adol. Because he had gone deep then we now started talking in Greek and Hebrew alone. He was saying that can he pray out somebody from hell? That is it a damnation? You know. So the what got it out was now saying let him explain salvation. Like a friend was saying about broad talks. When you are talking to Brahtox and you are. He doesn't give up arguments. He will say I've heard. If he says I've heard he's lying. How you know he has helped you argue, but you Heard me, We say, I've heard. So when we argue, broth hooks will go around and run around and you can argue with him for details on the idea. I thought he had accepted.

Like I was saying, after about five hours, I said, I'm tired. So we now knew what the secret was. If he's talking and you're arguing and arguing, the way to end the argument say Brother Hagin said, when you say where? That's the end of all strikes. So even if you don't just tell a lie, Brother Haggis said, where say he name? So what goes? But the point was what God was that we said, look, when a man has received salvation, right? That he one guy like that, he was attending one of these churches in Nigeria, was a leader. So when heard that, he said no. So we took him on. And when you come to our council, all we're doing with our life was reading the Bible. We took him on overnight. The next day the guy read through scriptures.

Three of us with you, we are in trouble. And when we're done, he stood on the table, he said, I'm leaving that church today. He left. The lady who was supposed to marry told her, look, if you tell her, I won't marry you, bro. You said God told you said no, tell me God grand girl too much. But he got us to say, can you supplicate a man out of hell? To hell? Are you talking about that supplication is to have great power with God. You're a priest with God that you can supplicate the impossible. So he led us to this text. If Jesus did Jesus go to the Spirit to preach and the word is Caruso. That means that people that have died still have hope of salvation. That's how we began to study.

For almost a year, while I can't get trousers, we're studying, asking questions. What bailed us out, like I said, of course, today we have better answers was the fact that salvation is received. I remember one time like that they had to sit some people down. They are not even from the Orthodox church. I will not explain that what happens to people who lived, for example, in Africa before the gospel came. Want to hear that one? I've explained it to you before, what happened to them and the gospel was not preached. I had to debunk one by those things can be exhaustive, because in some people's minds it's troubling them. It has never troubled me before, because what I can see, I don't talk about you. Have been thinking, thinking what would have happened? What would have happened? I said stay with the written word.

You will explain it. Is that clear? So this is why this text can be troubling. Whichever answers you get, it leads to another question. So get ready. Did he go to preach to the people in the days of Noah who were rebellious? Many of the immediate church fathers like Origen, Cyril of Alexandria, St. John of Damascus, very close to the first century church subscribed to this. Now let me put the caveat. I know some people quickly assert things. The way you mention somebody from the second century church, that is really rubbish. There are a lot of heresies in that age too. So stick with the written word. Now the second view is, yes, Christ indeed. And if you look at this second view, I've explained it in series before. Christ indeed preached. Because you can't remove Christ from this conversation.

Christ indeed preached to the contemporaries of Noah, or let's say the people in the days of Noah. But he did it through Noah. So what I give to this, because when I look at the verbs, I will say that by which he went and preached to the spirits that are now in prison, which sometimes were disobedient when one's long suffering of God within days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, wherein filled that his eight souls were saved by water. Now the assumption here is that verse 19 was referring to the days of Noah. What if it was not? Because Noah could be an allusion or a motif in that conversation and not the subject matter. Are you following me? All right, like I said, I'll just open them up for you to think.

I'm not going to be decisive yet, but just for you to think. But like I mentioned, any conclusion will lead to a particular consequence. Very vital. The question really is spirit in prison. That's the real issue. Spirit in prison. If you follow the pattern of the St. Peter in 2nd Peter 2 and 4, where he mentioned the angels that sinned, cast them down to hell called Tartarus in the Greek, and deliver them to the chains of darkness reserved to judgment or Jude 7, even as no, Jude 6, the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he reserved the everlasting chains under darkness to the judgment of the great day. So this is a closest or a very close explanation of spirits in prison. Close. So the question will be, Are we talking about human means? The first two narratives.