Second Timothy, chapter 3 and 16. I won't say 15. All Scripture is given by the Spirit of God. I want to run quick by the Spirit of God has prompted him for doctrine, for a proof of correction, for instruction in righteousness. I would say this is the Old Testament. And if you are teaching the Old Testament, you have to retain its context. The context is the supernatural world. Now, the ancient writer was, and let's say Moses, the ancient writer, is writing from the supernatural world. We said that the law of Moses is about the temple, tabernacle actually. And the tabernacle was an interpretation of the supernatural world. Hebrews 8. 5, Right? He says, he was told, see that you build according to pattern. And we also said that Noah's ark was not a ship, was not a vessel, it was a temple.

We've done that study here already. So in Hebrews 8. 5, Which is Exodus 25:40, build according to what was shown you. What was shown you in the mount, which is this is God's picture of the earth. And you know, when he built that tabernacle, he says it's filled with the glory of God. It says, the whole earth shall be filled with the glory. Which means that what God showed Moses was what the earth was meant for. So when he built that tabernacle, which is meant to be the dwelling place of supernatural beings, right? He's saying that is the picture of the earth. So we said the temple of tabernacle is the mini earth or the window to God's earth.

So if temple is the picture God has for the earth or tabernacle, it means therefore that the world, the physical world as we see today is falsely in supernatural world. So if the law of Moses was about the temple, because that's part of what we're going to study going forward on the post service teaching, it was about the temple. Everything that Moses was about was the tabernacle was a tabernacle. I used temple very careless, because he didn't build. Temple is a fixed place. Tobacco is a moving tent. But they are the same. One is the predecessor of the other one. So if the writers of the New Testament we have seen now the question again, did they retain that context? Did they write what the Old Testament writer wrote? How come they were not as exhaustive? We said that is codified language.

Why didn't they break it down? We have said that the codified silence is a concept we have developed again to say that when a writer. Let me take it all over again, Codified language is, I'm writing from book A. You have book A. So there's no reason why I should quote the whole of book A. And book A is where I teach from every church service. So I would rather just make references, allusions to book A. Because you already read book A. So I'm just explaining the Book A that you already have. I am not quoting out of context because you read book A and we study Book A. So when I say things like redemption, my Cody Bible language captures the Exodus. What I say was like new creation. The Greek is Styxis.

Okay, but your mind is bara Hebrew, which means to shape something out, to give it a purpose. When I say new kainos is Greek, but Chadash is where I'm taking it from to repair, to renew, to restart. So I'm using codified language. And usually a codified language carries a whole world with it, stories, characters. A single phrase used by a New Testament writer can take you to through the 39 books of the Old Testament. Just a phrase. If I say God Theos in the Greek, the Old Testament says Elohim. And there's no one singular being called Elohim in the Old Testament. I say Lord, which is Adonai or Yahweh. It takes you through the entire Old Testament because look at something like, look at Revelation 1 for example.

I remember one of these Christocentric boys two years ago was saying that Jesus is not God like that he's the son of God. I said, it's not because you have heard with me. How can you be know me? I'll be talking like that. He's not, don't even know what son of God means. He says God is the father and all that. I said, you just come for camp meeting 2020, you won't come for 2021 show 2023. Just like some of us will miss classes. You come the first day, they come the day before the exam. How do you want to pass? There are kind of people that will see their results. Say 40, say praise the Lord 40.

You know, there are some people when they are preaching, the kind of preaching that when they teach a text is like, let my people go, just explain it. We have it. Have what? Is our only me. You cannot say. You cannot say we don't have it, but what do we have? All things that let my people go teaching. When you came the first day, I came the last day. They say what's going to come out? What's going to come out? Someone told me say I have a preacher. I've been preaching this evening, sir. They say, which audition of Levitia should I take? Wait for the answer now and then which of these I take in leave 1. I looked at him. I said, since commit is songs, When you get there, just sing.

Me overnight I. I went to bed past two, I woke up to four. I came for first service, second service. You, what's up? You, you okay? You just be singing. Sing there you are not serious. So you go and preach nonsense. You say, where do you get it from? He's rabbi. He's rabbi that taught me this rubbish. Revelation 1, verse 4. I saw the guy. I said, look, John said to the seven churches, he's from him. Look at this. Which is, which was, which is to come. I said, you know what he has just done here? He has Split up. Exodus 3:14. That's what Yahweh means. I am. That I am. I will be what I will be say, oh, that's Yahweh. That's the person who appeared to Moses. So the Old Testament author is the teacher of a New Testament writer.

Did you get that? That's the teacher. Did they retain it? So he said, codified language. Now what is codified silence? Now we said, and we're going to have to say this louder, that no writer of the Bible was writing to you. They didn't have you in mind. Who were they writing to? I showed you something in the first service that we saw. For example, Corinth, Acts 18. Paul went to Corinth and was there for about two years. And he was teaching them. He now writes a letter. I now showed you that the essence of that letter is not to teach them the whole of God's word. It is a particular thing that was going on in Corinth. And he said it in verse 10 and 11 and 12, that there is division among you. That was what he was resolving in 16 chapters.

So there will be nothing he would teach exhaustively because the issue was unity. Are you following what I'm saying here? But what is common to all the letters the Old Testament. So if he doesn't say something in his letters, it's not that he has not taught it in the churches, because he will be silent on such issues that he assumes he has explained and taught you. So the codified silence, an assumption by a writer that his audience has been taught in other forum or fora on other issues. Okay, for example, there are only two books where Paul talks about married couples, basically about husband wife, Colossians and Ephesians. He doesn't talk about it. You Won't find it in Romans, even though it looks like romance. Is that in 1st Corinthians? Is that in 2nd Corinthians? Not at all.

Peter talks about the married people in 1 Peter, but not in 2nd Peter. The writer of Hebrews goes around it. First, second, third, John, don't talk about marriage at all. Are you saying he didn't teach marriage? So the codified silence is an assumption by the writer that you, the reader of his letter, his regular audience. So the principle of where the New Testament is silent has a lot of exceptions. Another exception is if it is in the Old Testament, study it first. Find out whether it is Old Testament cultural or is theology. It cannot be wished away because it's not found in the Epistles. Am I making sense? That's the concept of the codified sacrament. We're going to build on it much more. So we have said that the New Testament author retained it. The context of the world. Sun, moon and stars.

Look at Psalm 8 again and go to Hebrews 2, Hebrews 1 and Psalm 8. O Lord our God. Go to Hebrews 2, Hebrews 1. Sorry. O Lord our God. How excellent is your name in all the earth. Now when we say name, we mean what? His presence. Okay, good. Who hath set thy glory above the heavens, out of the mouth of babes and sucklings? Thou hast ordained strength because of thy enemies. Thou hast. Thou might still the enemy and the avenger. That's the movie, right? Right. When I consider the heavens now, the heavens will be the New Testament heavenlies. Right? Heavenly beings. Good. Or even use the italicized heavenly places, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained. Now look at what he now does. What is man, that thou art mindful of him.

And the Son of Man, that I will be saying now, we should be king. We should be kingd. If we think that. The psalmist here, David, is saying that when I look at the stars that don't talk, moon and say. I say, what is man? Can you and the stars interact? What is man? He's talking about the supernatural beings, the people. In job 38, 7, that says the morning stars rejoiced, the morning stars sang for joy. So he now says, what is man? That they are mindful of him. The Son of Man, that you visit him. You have made him a little lower than now. You know this verse 5. You can put in bright the sun, moon and stars. Right? Right. That's the angels there, or Elohim. And you have crowned him. With great glory and honor.

So this is the supernatural world context in Psalm 1. That's Hebrews one. Sorry. I'm sorry for that. Hebrews one. God. Okay, okay, let's look at verse four. Being made so much better than the angels at their inheritance, obtained a more excellent name than they were. We've already said that angels or the hosts of heaven were reduced to the word angels. In New Testament language. We said the reason was just before the incarnation of Jesus, there was worshiping of angels. And it was now an attempt by Bible writers to not refer to Jesus as that angel of the Lord because of the emergence of the cultic practices, because the Old Testament talks about angel who is God that is worshipped. So rather than breaking down the sons of God narrative, all the different synonyms for the host of heaven, the New Testament just says angels.

But if you go to the text that they are reading from the Old Testament, you will see. See it as host of heaven in verse 5. For unto which of the angels, or let's say host of heaven, said the attendant, thou my son, this day have I begotten thee. And again I will be to him a father, and he will be to me a son. And again, when he brings in the first begotten into the world, he says, let all the angels of God worship him. So he's talking about the host of heaven. So in chapter two, what he now says in verse five. For unto which unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak but one in a certain place, testifying what is man, that thou art mindful of him?

Nor the Son of man, that you visit him, you have made him a little lower than the angels. You crown him with glory and honor, and this set him over the works of your hands. So the that sun, moon and stars of Psalm 8 has been written here by this author, the writer of Hebrews as the angels. So the resurrection of Jesus was not. Now, let's don't forget what we said before. It wasn't God conquering the disobedient spirits. No, it wasn't his God over all. And they know it wasn't all the conquests that were found in the Scriptures. Why was it that the question should now be, but if it's about supernatural beings, why was it men that were fighting? That was what God was asserting. He has placed man over the works of his hands.