It means that we are dealing with territories that belongs to God. He says he had given them to the sons of men because we saw the narratives of disobedience and all of that. So that's the big deal. To just see what men saw as what happened from the throne to the cross to the throne is ridiculous. What did the enemy see? What did God see? What happened on Day of Pentecost? What did God see? The other guys are there some people just speaking loud and these ones are drunk. But there was clothing tongues like us on fire. Look at some 89. Sorry. And verse 5. And heaven shall praise thy wonders, O Lord, Thy faithfulness in the congregation of the saints. Who in the heavens word of heaven language can be compared to the Lord.

Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened to the Lord? This is where we get the derivative of the church from church of the firstborn Heavenly Jerusalem written in heaven. Who in the heavens. Verse 7. God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints and to be had in reverence of all them about him. O Lord, God of hosts, who is a strong God of thee, unto thy faithfulness around the body. So this is very clear to now say that the way Jesus as a man was seated far above. Thus as the Lord of hosts, yes, but as a human being. So the psalmist says, what is man? That you are mindful of him, not the Son of man, that you visit him.

He said, oh, Lord, I recognize your name is all the earth, he's your glory fill the heavens. He said, you see the stars. I said, what is man? Then the psalmist said, you made him a little lower than the head of the Hebrew versions will say for a time. And then you crowned him. That means as it were the most the one that is frail. You crowned him with glory and honor. No, I thought that he will make man, you know, have you looking big like the gibbons said, no, just made me frail. And God always reverses how we think he will pick the second as the first. You know, it just reverses everything. Then he now says, and put him over all the works of your hands. So in Genesis 1 and 2, we saw the heavens and the earth.

In Genesis 3, it was in the garden of God that he now bought that man. So Genesis 3 is the first time you see a man in the high. So when Genesis 3 is cast out and we see Ephesians 2 and 1, he is now seated there. Are you following what I'm saying here? This is it. That is it. He is now seated far above. Far above is not above. Where place go to is far above the host of heaven. That's why Paul could say that this is Paradisus, which we have called the garden. Today you will be with me, the right hand of God. Yes, Today you will be with me in the high. Today you will be with me in the heavens of heavens. Today you will be with me in the most holy place in the earth.

Today you will be with me, the most high God. What a place of authority. So in Psalm 82 I've been seeing the Most High God is a comparison. He therefore becomes incongruous. Incongruous to say that God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods. In verse 6, you are children of the Most High. That Most High already presupposes that the gods spoken here of the sons of God are the same beings. We are referring to the hosts of heaven. So Bible language of the New Testament author, he might have broken it down. Seated far above. Of course, I see Paul mix David, Moses and Genesis. Seated is a King's language. Psalm 110:1 Far above is the most high supernatural world language. All principles, you can just put them as the gods or supernatural beings or hosts of heaven.

And you are saying the same thing. So I dare say that our understanding of the Old Testament context is very important. The world has not changed. Are we here? And as I said, you know, a few weeks ago, that if we make claim that the earth is its restless, the challenge we usually have is that all these things are descriptions in many theologies of an afterlife experience. For nothing is a messy thing. But the point is, someday, when everything is done, we now be in clouds. So when we say clouds, our own clouds are rain clouds. Clouds and rain now have crown on your head. Some of you wanted to be in your village, but you couldn't get. They now give you scarf and say, worshiping the Lord. But what if you know that description of the earth space.

Now if the earth is its rest space. And Moses, you know, Moses the tabernacle, when he was going to build, said, make sure you build according to what was shown to you. So he builds God's new heaven and earth, and he builds it. And then he makes a holy place. He makes the most holy place, the outer court. Then he creates the seas describing the Genesis narrative of the earth and what is there. And he creates it. He's the most holy. What is that most holy place where the high priest and Yahweh interact? And that wasn't the first time, because in Adam, we saw Adam and Yahweh walking in the cool of the garden, cool of the day in that garden. Genesis, chapter three, verse eight.

So we therefore know that if that description is in the earth, and if what Moses was building was God's interaction with man in the earth, the thinking of an afterlife experience is false. It's an experience here. And when we read Children of Israel and the kind of interactions they had with Yahweh in absolute physicality, then we know that what is hindering us today is a belief system. Like a man. Rightly said, when you think, Kenneth Fagin said right, wrong thinking produces wrong believing and wrong believing. You say the wrong thing, I say wrong things. Because you just believe the wrong things. You just think, you know, like somebody was arguing. I went to their church to preach and I told them John 14. I don't know how I got there, but I know how I got there, actually. And the man said.

So he sat me down. He said that John 14. He said, I can see it in my father's house. I have many mansions. He said, I know. Will you explain it? He told me practically. He said, I tried to check scriptures that could, I said, but I didn't see any. So I told him, I said, what did Jesus call his father's house? He said he never thought about it. I said, let's go to John 2. That Jesus called the temple his father's house. Oh, said, that's true. So I said, now, assuming John, because John didn't know there was going to be a time that many of us will start reading from John 14. He didn't think that a sincere person can start a book on the 14th chapter. He didn't even have chapters. He said, imagine if we change in my father's house.

And we said, in the temple there are many mansions. He said, yes, it's a good purpose for you. He said, yes, okay, that. I said, very well. So if it was temple, you would have thought it was heaven? He said, yes. I said, now we are called the temple of God. I said, true, when you become temple of God? When we got born again. I see. He said, but man of God, it's going to be tough. I said, why? He said, that's our hope. I said, well, unfortunately, God will give you that hope. This is the temple. So when I asked one last question and somebody asked me even in this church, he said, so where are we going? I said, die first. Imagine you're asking that kind of question. Where are you going to?

You know, like somebody is so bothered about what will happen when he graduates. He has ready to take jump, you know, you start for the course, say, I'm just thinking. I say graduate. You don't even have my chick number. Graduate for this one you have met, put into practice, you know, some people ask questions I think are not necessary and usually I don't like answering them. A guy asked question on Facebook three days ago and I got told him, I said, I've not taught him. That's how I chased him away. I said, look, this one understand it first. By the time you understand, by the time we get to that one, you know, we go to. Where do believers go to? I just taught a few of them. When you're even looking that day, I knew we'll pause a bit.

Maybe next year I will get there, you know, you salary. Heaven is here. Heaven is here. Now let's. What do people do? Where did they go? You can't say in the grave. I said, where are they? Is he there? Somewhere else? A part of this earth where God is. So he has body double. There's a God that shows us in the world, another world where we are yet to find out the identity of this earth. We don't even know where this earth is. We just don't like it. God, we have a lot of sufferings here. Destroy this earth. After three days, I'll build it again. So we assume rapture, you know, and Jesus will just show up amending the whole thing. They said, you have come, you have come, you know.

And you see, when he was saying it, his audience could never have thought that was what he was saying. Like I mentioned, he was not even thinking. They were not even thinking he was going to die at all. Thoughtless. He was going to just show up one day and you know, in the clouds and you know, we are going all going where? So what got into the earth? The identity of the earth has a supernatural context. Heaven. Heaven is the identity of the earth, not what he said. He established it upon the waters. You can imagine that this natural space has been given dominion over chaotic waters. Then let's think. Think. We said, land is salvation. Can you remember? Land is what? Earth is salvation, redemption. Now let's think.

I submit to you that like I said over the years When Scripture is misinterpreted many times a major truth is gone. So I dare to say that I struggle to call a man a Christian who doesn't care whether the Scriptures are interpreted rightly or not. That's why we have to be very careful of those who always relate results to everything. I told you here before that interpreting Scriptures right and wrongly does not mean people poison the answers. It doesn't mean that they won't get miracles. It has nothing to do with miracles. But your worship of God, and of course to function with his plan on earth will require that you understand His Word very well. Imagine thinking of God's Word like his plan, his purpose. The word of God can't be how we get things. That is a very wrong theology.

It has to be how he wants things. Then, when we begin to describe the earth and what we have today, our thinking should not be what we will get, it should be what he will do in the earth. So the most high language is a territorial speech. So when Paul says, you are seated far above, notice that when he said that to the Corinthians church, Ephesian Church, he now released it to the preaching of the Gospel. So the connection between where we are seated and where we stay and minister is together. What did Luke say when Luke was describing Jesus sending them to the nations? Pay attention. He said he gave them power from on high. Is that territorial language? Yes. Acts 18. You shall see power come upon you to the uttermost part of the earth. And they now saw the pictorial description.

He was again raised on high. So on high is a territorial language, far above all principalities, powers, rulers of the darkness of this world. So what we didn't get today is what's the connection between ethnic rulers and supernatural beings? There's a lot of connection. Truth is, supernatural beings use authority and human authority. Because the very origin of gods in the nations is human authority, human will, human decisions. So in today's world, we can't take away authority from the supernatural world. They have to be connected. Don't forget that we said that where we find unity of purpose, culture, ethos, pursuits, there is very likely a supernatural being in view. So never think the worship of God is until you go to a shrine. You don't have that problem. We say in Abuja, Such issues. No.

Then you miss it because Corinth was like a modern city. And Paul identified the same as Coloss. We must identify to these idols. I've said that over the years, what are today's idol? We must know it. And the only way forward in our interpretation of Scripture is the identification unifiers. What unifies it? I've given you a hint. When people are bound by something, sometimes they won't know what's going on. They think, I just met people on my we share the same. We share the same. We share the same. Don't forget that God is the One who made all nations one blood. So supernatural beings always perverted. So anywhere we find unity, right? We should look for the purpose. When we discover the purpose, we will know the context. Are you here? But one thing is clear. The earth is the Lord.

All the glory must go to Him. We'll talk again on Saturday.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/