Let us pray. Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for another time to study in your word. Thank you for the revelation you always bring our way. We ask this morning that you flood our understanding with yours, that in this teaching questions are answered, doubts are dissolved, myths and things that look like mysteries are unraveled together. As a church, Jesus Christ, your son, even as it sees us in him. In him we have clarity this morning and we have light, no shadows or darkness. And all this is glorified as we are edified, built up by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside those who hear us and the body of Christ. Amen. Server seat, second Timothy, chapter three and verse 23 and 16.

All scripture is given by inspiration of God, responsible for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness. All scripture here refers to the Old Testament books. Now this is so vital in the sense of Paul writing that to Timothy. And in second chapter he talks about preaching the Word. Preaching the Word is a reference point to the Old Testament message. We could just look at a few other things in the Book of Acts that constituted the entire sermon. So we have said that we shouldn't refer to it as Old Testament in as much as we know that's not what it is. But in our studies there should be the Hebrew Scriptures in the sense of the Scriptures written in the Hebrew language. The message doesn't differ at all. And that's important in the way that we understand.

So we have asked a few questions and does the New Testament retain the Old Testament context sense of it can't be said the cultural context, because the New Testament is in Greek majorly. So it can't be the same cultural context because language is different and that's why it's called new and old in the sense of the books. But does it retain the context theologically in the sense of the message it brings? Does it retain. If it does that also amount to the fact that it retains the worldview, which we can say the supernatural worldview of the Old Testament author? One of the things we have said is that the Old Testament is more supernatural than the New Testament. Whether that is what that will suffice remains to be properly asserted, because we might again be making an assumption.

So does it retain that worldview where we have to allow the New Testament author to let us know now what Paul has said? He says all Scripture. All Scripture. Basically. Let me just say something I was thinking about when I was coming. Was it my initial wasn't part of my notes, but I just had to say it. You know this phrase. And I said to us that, you know, like we said law. We said that this is the law, but it has exceptions. We say when the New Testament is silent, be silent and all that. And I said true, but is that an exception? What is that silence? Is that silence an assumption that the audience is an audience that is schooled in the Old Testament? Because if that is the silence, then it is not silent.

Because if we said this Testament author has an assumption, the assumption is that you are reading the Old Testament so he will not go over things. That's why we came up with the concept of the codified language, which is where a book summarizes another book without quoting all its contents. Now, you can't say that book is silent because it has an assumption that the reader has read where it is taking its theories and his theology and concepts from just like he said to Timothy, all scripture. Now, if you hear all scripture today, you will include Romans, First Corinthians, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. But Peter, I mean, Timothy will not. Timothy's all scripture will be Genesis through to Malachi.

One of the things we are going to look at in this month is how reliable are books that are not in the 66 because we have references. We also say that scripture interprets itself. But have you observed that we've required books that were contemporaneous? What do I make contemporaries? Books that were written at the same time. The authors need to understand certain things they are saying. There are things, for example, that I'm going to say today, if you review them in 200 years time, the only way you understand is reading other books that were written at this time, other things that were said and done to understand the language, not the message, but the language. So scriptures interpreting itself is a rule, but has exceptions. Are you following what I'm saying? It has exceptions where I need to interpret grammar, culture. I will not.

I can't stick with that rule. I will have to go out of it and look at what it means in that, the context of that. For example, when you talk about the concept of the firstborn, or that's not even the one I was going to say the concept of the Tower of Babel. You know, on the face of it, when I say tower today is. Towers. The towers in that language is a ziggurat. And the ziggurat is a temple complex. So which you are not going to find in any book of the Bible, okay? But you are going to find it in the culture of those who wrote that text or the audience of that text. So that's why I said that rule has its exceptions. Okay, Exceptions where I need to go to culture, grammar, and all of that.

So when the submission that. When the New Testament is silent, the question is that is it silent or it uses the codified language. So in this month and maybe next, when we start looking at Old Testament books, again, are we referring to. Because I said there's codified language and I started to explain a codified silence. Now the codified silence is a bit different. It's a concept, another concept that we have, you know, evolved to study scripture. Is it silent or the author has that assumption that you read the Old Testament. Let's look at a word. A word. Let me give you another one. Well, do not be demon conscious or devil conscious. And you have quite a number of versions. Sometimes we just. The New Testament is Because again, we said that it's more modern than the Old Testament in the culture.

Look at one simple word that. Okay, years ago, if I'm going to talk about preaching the word huaji lizzo in the Greek, I usually will use town crier. You know, town crier. And I got that understanding from. From Vines dictionary. No, no, no. Thayers, Thayers. Then I think Vines. Then later on, of course, I did a bit of studying, but it wasn't. Something was lost on me then. I'm talking about way back and when I say town crier now, if you go to a city and you say town crier, they don't know what you're talking about. Town crier crying about what? Who beats him up? The town crier is a messenger of the king. Okay? And the moment you mention king, now, maybe many of you need to know this, because I know this being a prince, not supernatural one.

And I ask questions, okay, how did my family become a royal family? And then I was told that why. How people become royal families is that they must be. You must trace them to the origins of the town. Not necessarily the person who founded the town, but the person who secured the place, ensured that, you know, nobody, you know, just the king is a warrior. The king leads battles. The king conquers territories. So that's why people make claim to it. And of course, can go on and on to different historical backgrounds. I discovered that the Oyo empire in the Yoruba, you know, region was that strong. In fact, at that point, the Oyo empire was the kingdom of the Oyora. What I'm saying now is Ombusa fighting. But this no Never. We were there. So you see, it's about power.

So a king because you were able to conquer a territory. So trace that town crier. Town crier works for the king. King is a warrior who claims the territory. So when you look at the word, it therefore has war in the background. Are you following what I'm saying here? But you know, just a town crier may not be clear. So you must break it down. So when you are preaching the gospel, the word to preach has a background sound, war. So when we say gospel, for example, who does say good news? You know, Good news, Mark 16:15, go into all the world and preach the gospel. Good news. But the word is basar in the Hebrew. That's why we said that the words are falsely Hebrew before.

They are great, because the Greek is a translation or the Greek language of the Jews or the Hebrew Bible is a translation. The word basar means news, to announce news. You know, it's the reason why the New Testament adopts the root part, which is the word eu is because it's good, because Jesus is that king. But it's not necessary. The Hebrew doesn't have it as good news. Let me. So the game changer there is the Jesus interpretation, which is that we're going to also look at that maybe not immediately how the work of Christ. And this is why the Christocentric interpretation becomes very useful too. The Jesus manifestation as a man in itself, an interpretation of scripture. For example, you go to the Old Testament and look at the word vasar. Vasa simply means news.

And it is usually associated with war news from the way front. Look at First Samuel, chapter three, chapter 31. Sorry, news from the war front, verse eight and nine. It came to pass on the morrow when the Philistines came to strip the slain. And they found. They found Saul and his three sons falling in Mount Gibboa. They cut off his head and stripped off his armor and sent to the land of the Philistines roundabout to publish it. Which means to preach the gospel. That's the word here, basar. To preach the gospel in the house of their idols and amongst their people. All right, so it means to proclaim a news. So it's usually for is used by the military of those days. It's a war rhetoric to publish a news. Okay, from battle.

Now, second Samuel, chapter one, where a man came, okay, and in verse two, Okay, it came to pass a man of the camp from Saul with his close rent and head upon his head. And so it was. And where do you come from? Say I'm out of the camp of Israel. Verse 3. How was the matter? I pray thee, tell me. Answered. The people have fled from the battle. Saul and Jonathan are dead. Also, David said to him, they told the man, how lowest are this, that Saul and Jonathan his son be dead as it happened. And he explained, and he looked behind him, he said, saw me? And he called up to me, and he said, yeah, am I? So the man described it and when. Of course, let's skip all the other details.

In verse 17, David lamented with his lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan, his son. Then he said in verse 19, the beauty of Israel is slain upon the high places. How are the mighty falling? Tell it not in Gath. Publish it not in the streets of Askala. That is, do not announce the news. Okay, so it's not always a nice story. Okay. When you use the word bazaar to preach. But now the interpretation of Jesus's work, which is why the New Testament uses it and retains that rude right, because of what Christ did in the three days and three nights and in his resurrection. So Isaiah 52, or before we get there, look at Psalm 68, Verse 11. The Lord gave the word. Great was the company of those who published it.

When it's a company and they think it's like a printing company, publishing house. No king of armies. Look at the context. In fact, verse one says, arise, O God, and let your enemies be scattered. Let them that hate him flee before him. So verse 12, King of armies did flee apace, and she that tarried at home divided the spoil. So it's about war. The Lord gave the word and the company that talked about the news of the war. Okay, so Isaiah 52. And verse seven. How beautiful. That's the point. So this is where the concept of good news is from. News itself is war rhetoric, a military term. How beautiful. Upon the mountain are the feet of him. Now, when the Old Testament uses mountains, that is that seated on high. Is that on high? Is that supernatural?

The feet of him that brings good tidings, that publishes peace, and brings good tidings of good, that publishes salvation, said to Zion, thy God reigneth. Notice the Zion fact there publishes to Zion. Okay. Thy God reigneth in chapter 40. Look at this one, verse three. The voice of him that cries in the wilderness. Wilderness brings you to Exodus. Prepare you the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted. Every mountain. Now, valley and mountain are supernatural terms. Every mountain and hill shall be made Low crooked shall be made straight, and rough places plain. The glory of the Lord shall be revealed. All flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. Now look at verse nine. O Zion, which brings good tidings.