Get thee up in the high mountain, O Jerusalem, that brings good tidings. Now, Jerusalem and Zion are cities that were conquered by David. So you can see that if I Look at the second Samuel 5. And verse seven can read from verse one. But verse seven, David took the stronghold of Zion. The same is the city of David. That means he got it by warfare. So Zion already presupposes that the language of publishing is a publishing of war. Isaiah 61:1. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach. Now look at that term, to preach. So he said, preach is announce victory at war, Right? Huh? Are you here? Okay. To announce victory at war to the meek and set me to bind up the brokenhearted.

Now, so that you know that this is about war, he says to proclaim liberty to the captives. Is that war? All right. Opening of the prison to them that are bound. These are warfare rhetoric. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn. Three to appoint to them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, oil of joy for mourning, garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, and that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified. They shall build up the whole waste. They shall raise up the former desolations, shall repair the waste cities, desolations of many generations. So you see that at the background of this is also war and claiming territories. So we have war territories.

So if we come, therefore to understand the preaching of the gospel. So the one you use gospel. Gospel has the Old Testament warfare rhetoric. Now, Isaiah interprets it in Isaiah 60:1, verse 1 to 3. And we saw Isaiah 52:7. It's in the high mountain, the high places. So by using high mountains, high places to explain good news, it therefore means that the preaching of the gospel a spiritual warfare or the news of a spiritual conquest. So the question now is the New Testament silent about it? No, because the moment we use preach gospel, we are using, we call, therefore, I mean, we've said before, that becomes a codified language, right? That needs to be opened up in the narratives. By the time we use the word gospel, then we come to who is the king? Where is the kingdom where Is the territory?

Who's the enemy? When was the battle fought? What's our job? So those are key elements. In fact, if you read that into the Greco Roman text where Paul talks about Jesus will appear then those who are in the air will meet up. That is the like that's the culmination of that warfare claiming territory celebrating it. So we therefore will not be able to say because the New Testament is silent. We're going to see something in the second session because I have two sessions this morning and you say how silent is it about it? Is it silent? Or there's an assumption that the author I mean by the authors that their audience because they didn't write to you. Because they write to you.

You cannot but emphasize where they make assumptions they didn't write to it's like if I write a letter to try to just things that you probably will say okay, let me say something. I was having a meeting yesterday evening and it's a committee that I chair. So we're talking about something that happened on that committee at my classmates in school. So boss. So they were making jokes before and said it's Achama's birthday we are going to order something. So I was joking with them. I said that various is unconstitutional. There's nothing the constitutional that says you celebrate birthday for you. So I say we'll celebrate it our way. Not the way we used to celebrate it. Now if you are not. If you are not part of us. You know what they mean by we celebrate it?

The celebration of birthday is that they will give you what they call maximum shishi. It's your birthday and they will now come together and flog you no, that's the beginning. So the b that when they are done with you now bring food to thank them for what they have done. So now said who betting that Holly culture is those boys in the Bing house. You know. And the thing is you doesn't matter who you are but there was one particular senior who was very very brutal. We waited for his birthday because and that the ending of but be smart make sure that when you are doing your own you can't see you directly. So let's say let's celebrate birthday you now go away and call. Well you don't understand what we are saying we that we are talking.

We have an assumption that we're not talking to you because you know celebration day we need to But. But PR it I never was there was not one single day I was there beaten. I had a way around it. The Last one that almost happened. My mom came early, so I think she brought the food the day before. So I had been resolving my issues. So by the time you are taking care of all the host of heaven, I took care of, you know, everybody ahead of time anyway. So, you know, so the. The New Testament author makes that assumption because it's key to know that just like the Old Testament writer wasn't writing to you, the New Testament writer also wasn't writing to you. So we must sit where they sat. And they sat reading books that had a supernatural worldview.

So the question is, did they retain the worldview? We said, how would know is the language right now if the language, which is by the time they are interpreting it now, they retained the language of war. Now we have a small problem. Was there war for them to announce? Isaiah 60:1 says there was. One to three says there was. Did the New Testament author use it by Jesus's term kingdom, which is the word vasir? Kingdom has a king. You can't be a king without war. You can't be a king without territory and military strength and power. So by using kingdom, Jesus's codified language gives us the background of the Old Testament books. Again, read it last week in Luke 22 and 53, where he says, it is your hour and the power of darkness. Power of darkness.

Power of darkness is another military warfare rhetoric. All authority is giving me in heaven and on Earth. Matthew 28:18, all those phrases have the Old Testament background of war. Go and preach the gospel. And in Mark 16, which we are going to examine in circumcision, look at the four sign. Now, by using sign semion S E M E I O N. We've done this study before, though, by using signs. Why you and I may not. Because we don't. When you say sign, you will say sign board, right? Sign or sign language. Okay? But when they say sign, the Old Testament writer, sorry, New Testament writer has that Old Testament in view. Where there were signs in the Exodus in Egypt, because what happened between Moses, Pharaoh and his magicians and eventually all the plagues was warfare. Exodus 15 says it was war.

It was called the man of war. So by retaining the word Simeon in Mark 16 and John 2, look at John, Mark 16, look at the first sign. Cast out devils. That's the first sign Mark retains. Or the editor or the author cast out demons. Why is casting out demons the first thing to see? Why? It shows you, therefore, that there was conflict and conquest. Casting out of demons. So as a New Testament writer retained that view, sure. The use of again, Gospel kingdom preacher, maybe a few other things. The actual description of what happened to Jesus by Peter in Acts 2 gives us the idea. And maybe we should also add this. The fact that in the death and sufferings of Jesus resurrection, the most prominent character that was quoted by anyone was David. And you know, we talk about David the shepherd.

Yeah, you're right, but there's David the king. So we said that there is the heaven side. Or can you remember of the natural events described in the Old Testament? So if David is that character that was most used for Jesus, in fact, I showed you that Matthew 11 says the same seed of David first the seed of Abraham. So therefore you cannot explain Jesus's throne without explaining it from David. In fact, every time you talk about he is seated, all right, which is what all the writer of Hebrews like seven times Peter does Paul many times John seated is a Davidic language, seated far above because it's 110, verse one. It's David's prophecy. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand till I make all your enemies your footstool. Sit at my right hand.

And in Matthew 22:42, Jesus describes this as both the humanity and deity of the son of David. So in Acts of the Apostles, chapter two. Listen, guys. The connection between the New Testament author and the Old Testament is not assumed. It's direct and it is, you know, the influence of the Old Testament or New Testament author is not, by the way, it's not secondary, it's a primary source. So if that retained worldview cannot be seen, set aside or used sparsely in Acts of the Apostles and chapter two, again, in describing what happened from the cross to the throne, David is used singularly by Peter. It begins, of course, from Joel, the outpouring of the spirit. The outpouring of the Spirit is also warfare because it comes after an event. What's going on? Israel is under captivity, or the world of captivity.

Then when there is redemption, people are set free. And afterwards I will pour out my spirit. So the event of the outpouring of the Spirit, it proceeds from release from captivity, proceeds from redemption, proceeds from a release hero from bondage and therefore warfare. So the output of the Spirit also has a background as well of the war. So now watch how Paul. I'm sorry, Peter, sorry. Describes the resurrection. He says in verse 34, David is not ascended to the heavens because that's a primary character. And notice that, guys, look at it. You know, the ascension of David as king came firstly there Was a background that he took lion and a bear. Then Samuel comes to his house, chooses the unexpected, anoints him with oil. First Samuel 16, 12, 13. Then he goes to confront Goliath. You can't miss that. He takes on Goliath.

Then from that point he begins to conquer territories till 2nd Samuel, where he now is crowned 2nd Samuel 5 and takes Zion. So if David is a central character and he ascends. And put all your enemies and we saw that in the trajectory of David, therefore means just like Psalm 68, verse 1, let God arise, resurrection and let all his enemies be scattered. The background is so clear that the New Testament writer assumes I am reading what he's reading. Maybe where the issue is who are the enemies. We've said that there's now in a typical way we say the Old Testament fought not human enemies. The New Testament focus on not exactly. There is a heaven and supernatural side of the Old Testament writings that shouldn't be ignored either.

So in Acts 2 he says David did not ascend into heavens, but he said to himself, the Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand until I make thy foes your footstool. Who are the foes? Paul retains this language in 1 Corinthians 15, where he says, the last enemy that shall be destroyed, verse 25, 26, he says there, the last enemy. So in the resurrection of Jesus, the preaching of the gospel which proceeds from it, why are we preaching? We're preaching. Jesus rose from the dead. Jesus rising from the dead is conquest. Jesus rising from the dead is an exploit, is warfare. We said the other day that in the resurrection he took all the cities in the world, all the territories.

All right, we'll see all that as we also proceed in Colossians chapter 2 and 15, where Paul says he spoiled principalities and power and made a show of them openly triumphing over them in it. Colossians 2:15 In Ephesians 1, verse 19 through to 22, he says it's far above all principles, power, might and dominion, and every name that is named. Not only in this world. Now, why would you have the world to come? Because in this world we have the good and bad guys. But in the world to come, when everything is set right, good guys, he says far above. So if the gospel is emanating from a spiritual conquest, the use of the Gospel therefore has a worldview of the supernatural world. It mustn't be ignored. So the New Testament author and the Old Testament author are writing around the same events.

So what are we preaching on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, on the streets of Lagos, the streets of Abuja, the streets of London, the streets of Argentina, the streets of Sudan. What are we saying? That Jesus Christ has won. He has won what? He has won a victory in the supernatural world. What are we saying? We're saying that Jesus Christ has defeated the host of darkness. What are we then saying? We're saying we have the signs. One, we are not under the power of darkness. Two, we can set men free from it. So the preaching of the Gospel is therefore a supernatural vocation. It's not a mere intellectual discourse or a conversation around events trying to argue, debate and win it. The preaching of the Gospel has a preaching and announcement of something supernatural.