He knows how to, you know, bring about his will in a very. I mean, that's. Paul calls it the multidimensional wisdom of God. And we must follow that. We must understand it. So therefore, that's very strange when a church or a ministry begins to copy what the world does. What are you talking about here? You don't even understand what's happening. That's, that's not, that's never God's pattern in the world. God is doing something. It's the other way around. When there were no taxis, censors you know, the Messiah was born. Something else was in the news. Cnn, Fox News, sky, let's come home. Arise. TV channels tbc, Wazobia. They were carrying something else. But something else was going on that was important to humanity and it was not seen in the census.

Just like the death of Jesus Lockett's resurrection, when he rose from the dead, he revealed himself to just a select number of people. And those guys were discreet enough not to put it on the Internet and say, guys, I may not be able to tell you everything, but something just happened. Watch out, Cain first is going to be in trouble. They think they did something to Jesus. It shocked you see, you know, they were discreet enough to know who to talk to. I will tell you know, your audience. Who are you talking to? What's this about? What do they need this? You know, and that is how the things about Christ were within the scriptures. That's why some scholars will say the New Testament is the Old Testament concealed. You know, of course I don't do that dichotomy.

But the concealment they are saying is you can only study it. Satan wasn't so intelligent to know what was going on. In fact, I dare say that where. And this was EWTN said what Satan saw, by the time he saw who was on the cross, it was late, it was too late. Because at that point he had exercised all he had, which was death. Hebrews 2:14 and 15. And he that had the power of death was destroyed by a man, God that became a man. I told you how. I mean, why did he become a man? So those are key issues. So it's not like there's a dossier's love moment that you're always looking for about Jesus. No, they are usually in patterns. We call them motifs. And that's why we came up with the concept of identification unifiers.

How can I unify this world and you know, look at it. There are things that unifies different worlds and we can see and this will help you also in knowing what God is doing. Like I mentioned yesterday in service about the online church modus, it's really ridiculous that we just follow the world because it's very easy. I mean, I know some of you here, you work remotely. How do you work four days or four days at home? So just like church, I pray at home four days. So we think that can also work for church. So as soon as the world was doing it, we just felt, church should be able to do this one. That's how there was a time like that in America it came to Nigeria as well.

They said well, that when you are explaining something in class, you need somebody to be doing like this, to be dramatizing and to be showing you know what you are doing. That people usually like that kind of side attraction so that they can concentrate. That's how they brought it to churches in Nigeria. I know they stopped. Many of you didn't even know them what I'm talking about. So the person admitted that really people were not listening to the person again. They were looking at, you know, how worse Cardenius the world must tell you what the church is that you know, God has left that the new normal. I'll just be a whole. And I if I saw one online ordination, I said that would very interesting. We soon get online. Resurrection from the dead. God is faithful.

Okay, so look at First Corinthians, Romans 15. We have things to look at this morning. Romans 15 and verse 1. Now look at what he's talking about. We them that are strong ought to bear the fountains of the weak and not to please ourselves to every one of us, please let every one of us please his neighbor for his good in edification. For even Christ pleased not himself. The repose of them that reproached thee fell on me. Now he's quoting David. David is not talking about Jesus, just like Psalm 22. My God, my God, why are you forsaking him? He was talking about himself, you know. But because Jesus became a man, he assumed the status of David. That is why he became prophecy. Now the question is that notice that it now goes beyond Jesus assuming it.

So just like Jesus has in those prophecies, we are also going to walk where they walked. That's why Paul will talk about 1 Corinthians 10. And since the things happen to them as examples to us as examples and admonition, upon the ends of the world, the fulfillment of all things have come. Which means we are going to learn from it because we walk where they walk. So here David's life story becomes Christ's story. It's not the other way around. His life story becomes Christ. So I said the other day that many times, because the things God is doing is foolishness. First Corinthians 2, 13, 14 says foolishness. Natural man cannot receive it. You know the word Moriah, foolishness and discover that in that foolishness is where the power of God is. It's foolish because it doesn't follow the intellectual system of the world.

So you have Satan blindsided many times again in the temple in John 2, you know, when they said the zealous Father has consumed him, they saw it after the event. Oh, this was what happened. And again they refer to the same text in Psalm 69,9 it has consumed him. So what is the Father's house? We said the other times, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and what he promised David in 2nd Samuel 7 is that Father's house. So we must really be totally at home with the course of the New Testament, Old Testament. Yesterday we looked at body. I mean, remember that I said the word body of Christ. Unfortunately, people think it's physical body. Soma is the word. Soma is unity. And we said body of Christ. The expression body of Christ comes from Genesis 1:26. Let's make man in our image. That's the word.

Selem t s e L E M an expression. So when you have body, you have head. Head is not physical head, you know, head is source. Carefully. Your head is not the source of your legs. So that's not a physical body explanation at all. It's a source. Source and expression. So the image is the expression. The source is the head. God, head of all things. The body of Christ or mankind is the source. So understanding Bible language is very critical. Knowing the language of scripture. So it's a body of Christ. Don't say, our own church, we are the Tolem. Those are stupid. The image of God is the body Soma took to put things together. Asoma to body of sin. Romans 6:6 presents your body, not bodies, as some versions are put in Romans 12:1. A living sacrifice.

That's why he uses the word sacrifice and worship in Romans 12:1. Okay, why? Because he's talking about temple. Temple is the body, the union of God and man, Heaven and earth and mankind. So you have the word body image. So when you understand that language and the other time we spoke about, does the Bible have dietary laws? It's something about clothes, you know, man shall not put on what pertaining to a woman, you know, and it becomes a huge problem. Where's that text again? It's a text I've never tried to remember. Luke 22, I think verse five. Some of you know it very well. I've never tried to. You know, every time I preach, I'm always asking, what's that verse? Because I've never tried to. It's one text I've never tried to even remember why I don't meditate upon it.

It's not something I'm praying or not saying. God, I need light. Light over what? Martial protect to a Woman then who is the decider? I say, okay, so you already showed you the cultural context. A cultural context. You know, somebody was trying to do one deep exegesis. He said, look, he was talking about garments of war. Cool down. Those instructions have to do with worship. We said that the other time that in going to Canaan, because the ancient world was largely supernatural. So things that you will have taught and I can even say superstitious. So things that you will naturally is worship. Just I want to talk about the woman and the menstrual cycle and menstrual flow. And today people are still saying that.

I mean, I, I mean some churches will say, not the ones you know, say if you manage an apprentice, you can't come to service because they've taken an awful interpretation of that text. Meanwhile, in going to Canaan, they had Canaanite goddesses, fertility goddesses that they used those secretions, you know, discharges were used as worship. So why Moses will say, look, what we are doing is a counter culture. You are holy is so that you not reflect what they do. That's all. It has nothing to do, you know. And the same thing goes with clothes. There is no clothes that pertains to a woman or a man. There's nothing like that. It's culture that determines that in some culture today, women tie rapper. I mean, men tie rapper. So which one now?

I remember those days we used to joke among some people like brethren worry. We're just, we're just taunting them and we say, okay, you must not wear towel. And the guy said, no, no, that's a bathroom. It's not in the Bible anywhere. So you wear your trousers to bathroom. You do when he wants to sleep. Blah, blah. You cannot use clothes. Don't mind us. We source of light like that. We're talking our life ex Diwali brethren. You know, we came out of Diwali, so we come back and hunt them and all that. I mean, you experience that when you know almost nothing, you think you know a lot, so you begin to harass everybody, you know. What are you talking about? What part is.

I want to explain here we say, why can't you Jericho when you were born, were you not born in Jericho? That's the original plan of God, you know, very stupid interpretation, You know. But you know, we have to take the Bible much more seriously. Like somebody right this. And I agree with Indiana Colander that sinism is not Bible explanation. You don't. Yes, you can. We can joke once in a While, but because you are taunting people doesn't mean that you are saying what is right. But the point really was, I mean, again, largely we need to understand that there's a cultural context. That cultural context is because within the culture of the ancient Israelites and even the ancient Egyptian culture, their culture was worshiped. The way they used to behave, everything was worshiped.

Now, do you know that when you come to the New Testament, it also says everything you do due to the glory of God, and glory of God is also his temple and his place of worship. So you look at it and say, well, we still have that context in the New Testament. So everything. So to be holy as the Lord your God is holy, they needed to have a counter culture. Counter culture as touching menstrual cycle, counterculture as touching clothes. And you know, the same thing still applies today, even though cultures are submerged, inter overlapped and all of that. But there must be a culture. And Brother Hagin will tell us that the New Testament culture is love now, which is, I would say is New Testament.