P O L E M I C. A polemic is a counter argument, which means you are saying this is not true. Like an attempt, as it were, to correct an impression. Now, if, for example, you are doing a polemic, it means that it's a counter argument. That is why Genesis 1, that audience knew that when it says, let us make man in our own selim, that audience knew that there were other selims. So it's a counter. A counter argument. Okay? While the Salems were supposed to be figurines or plastered, you know, images of an unseen God, he says, no, man is my own. So the polemic is that God is building while all those other deities which we have found in history are picking locations and territories. God is saying, the whole earth is my dwelling place. So it's a polemic in itself.

If you understand that, then something about polemic is that many times to know what is being argued against, you may have to consult to know what is being said. Sorry, you may, because of an argument, you may have to consult what is being argued against to even understand definitions. Someone told me that I saw the story of Noah in one legend like that. I said, because the story of Noah and the flood in Scripture was a polemic, you will see another story like that. It's God saying, this is not true. This is the truth. So that's what I saw. This of the world is in different civilizations. So. And something common is that all the counter Arguments are showing that the whole world is a supernatural place. The whole world. We did a bit in the second session here.

The whole world is a supernatural place. Every one of those materials agrees with that. So see the Bible. That's why it's very unfair when you think the Bible is the only. Was the only book. Then when you hear slavery, as though slavery was started by the Bible. When you hear maybe gender, something says the Bible. No, the Bible rather is the intervention in what already exists among humans. So the Old Testament writer's language is heavily supernatural. Heavily. Let me say this. If you just understand the grammar of the Old Testament writer, and that's where you stopped, you have missed what they are saying. The grammar is from culture. So if the culture is supernatural, that grammar itself points to the supernatural. Are you here? Are you following this? That grammar itself is supernatural. Oh, sorry. That grammar points to the supernatural.

And this is why when the New Testament writer seems to use Old Testament language, don't forget that if you start in Jesus teaching meeting, what you will have is the Old Testament. That's what you will be reading. So which means that they use their language. Look at Matthew 24 again, This is why reducing, just simply describing, I mean the work of Jesus on the cross to the throne as just. He went from the cross to the throne. He died for us and he took his blood to heaven. You know, and that picture of propitiation that was done within the Reformation era, that just pointed to God. The way he thought is like justice. Justice means that a sinner must go to hell. Just will be the character of the judge who must ensure justice is done.

Then you now have what you can call mercy and compassion, which is also justice. Right? Where you help the helpless. Because when you help the helpless and the needy and the poor, it's also justice. And you grant it to the sinner. Okay? And the sinner receives it. How do you grant it to the sinner? Is when someone has mercy. How does he have mercy? Is by providing what the just judge requires. They say what the just judge requires. The wages of sin is death. Romans 6:23, the gift of God, eternal life. So he now has to die the death so that there is justice for you. This is a thinking system. Now the problem with that theology is that it was not in the minds of the writers of the Bible. It's a theology that came from a worldview that came years after.

It becomes fun because you cannot modernize Bible. The Bible is in ancient context. So justice you. Then somebody says they now ask a Question someone saying, well, you know, and there was this story and I asked it. I asked someone one day, you know, said, you know, Jesus took the death, that we should have died, that we ought to have gone to jail. And so, because we are going to. Then I asked the question. I said, tell me a justice system in the whole world where they will say, this person would have committed the crime, but somebody has offered to go there for him. Say, is there anywhere. They said, really there's none. So who created that system became porous. Because the essence of asking that guy to go to jail is because we don't want evil in the land.

So say, okay, since you don't want to go. I don't want to go for me, but you will still keep doing evil. So that itself is not justice. Are you following what I'm saying here? So that theory becomes punctual very easily because the proponents definitely are imposing a modern thought that doesn't even have a basis. And because we are fixated on that nature of the death of Jesus, we are thinking in judicial terms. Just God, justice, equity, mercy, you know, all that. We just bring it within. Like God has to conform to our judicial system. Yet the context of the Old Testament writer was supernatural world. In Genesis 3, the problem was from a supernatural context. The nakash is a supernatural being. The garden is a supernatural place. The tree of life supernatural place. Knowledge of good and evil supernatural place.

The cherubims that guarded the tree of life, supernatural beings that pointed the way to supernatural beings. So you now look at it the ground supernatural. So how do we want to explain the death and sufferings of Christ and remove that context? A big problem. If the earth is his rest place, Genesis 1 to Genesis 2, verse 1 and 2, and he is Spirit. Genesis 1:2 is a wind unseen being. Genesis 3:8, then that means that this earth for this earth to be, you know, we have this thing about the earth is for the. For natural things. So we now say that to have access to the earth, and I teach that because I have the word of faith roots, God has to. You have to get permission to be a human being to have access to the earth and all that.

It has a lot of exceptions that you can puncture very easily. If you take it from Genesis that the earth is his resting place and it's an unseen being. It therefore means that the earth has a supernatural origin itself. So there's no such thing as okay, God requires a man to grant him permission to walk in the earth. No, if you know the origins of the earth, that argument is flawed. So I've been said that that is their language, that when they are talking around the spiritual world. They don't make as much distinction like we do today. That's natural. That's supernatural. No. So going back what I was saying, that fixation about the debt it paid, the debt that I could not pay. So of course by the time you are done with that, the destination has to be outside the earth. Heaven.

So dichotomy has come. Heaven. So God is meant to be in a place outside the earth. When Paul was Talking in Acts 17 to those guys in mass, he said he is not far from every one of us. In him we live in him, we move and have our being that takes. He said he will not. He doesn't dwell in temples made with human hands, he said, because he created the heavens and the earth. So usually when we hear that the human hands, what we are thinking is that God does not dwell in the earth because is it human hands like he did here? What he is saying there is that he made this earth as his resting place. This earth was not made by human hands. So when Moses made a temple with human hands, that is the contrast.

God has made the earth his restless. This is heaven and earth. So the death of Jesus being discussed as now, is there a judicial fact to it? We will look at it. I intend to go salvation again this year. I was trying to push it next year, but we'll do it just maybe a few sessions, just to clear some of these things. Now, if it is not a judicial thinking and it's the supernatural. So we couldn't. Many people don't have questions, okay? Don't have answers to. So what happened in three days? In those three days, what happened on the cross? What happened in those three days until the demands of justice was met? So I don't understand. Someone said what happened is that when now went, when he died, he kept putting all the sins of the world.

So it took three days to empty it. I said, did they include the whole 20, 23? That may include nine. Nine days. Things have moved up. Things have changed. Though you haven't had more seeds, you know, they know what happened is this, you know, then put all the source of the world on him. That means it was somewhere. God put it somewhere he had the ging sauce. He said, I'm not against you, I'm going to put on Jesus. That means everybody is saved. No, no, no. You still have to believe after we are ready. This is water. So you see that is so flawed. It has an application, but it must be understood. Now coming back to this. So what happened in the three days? The three days are so important that if you miss it. I remember somebody was telling me those are.

These are blackberries. So we're not saying that. That. Do you believe in all that thing that Kenneth teacher said? What? Said that say, I'm surprised that someone like you can be Kenneth again. Bo, this was 2011 or so. I said, what is the problem? He said, because the guy is. I think he has changed because I saw one thing said recently that he doesn't think like that again. He doesn't abuse people. I hope so. So I said, look, how can you believe that Jesus. Jesus died spiritually. I said, okay, what happened to him? He said, he died. I said, I know he died. We both know he died, your dad. He said, yes, that because he's God. That is why that death mattered a lot. So I'm agreed. Let's leave it at that. It didn't matter why Three days.

He said the three days for justice to be. I said, okay, where did he go? He said he went to the grave. I know. Is it the sepulcher? He said, no. Where? He said, don't tell me that healthy. No, don't tell me where to. I said, I've not said anything. Where did he go? He said he went to the place where Old Testament saints went to. I said, where is it? Can't you just say it? He said, is it heavenly abode but not in heaven when you have abused people? I now find out who are you abusing our lives. You know when you are. When you want to take something that doesn't belong to you. The kind of arguments rubbish you'll be finding things when you have said something that is not true. Where did he go?

That aspect, the death of Jesus has affected most of theology. Of course it now creates heaven as outside the earth. So we are thinking that way. People will now die. They will now go. So the death of Jesus died to go to a place. Meanwhile, when you. That's why we got Leviticus wrong. We said so we think that when the writer of people was saying that the blood of bulls and goats cannot take away sin, that when they were all going to Levi the Levites, sorry, Aaron and the priesthood that. Do you think the average Israelite was expecting the blood of bulls and ghost sticky racing? No, they also did not think that way. Their sins were covered when New Testament is blotted out. They now say, which text are you using? You now go to Psalms.