Let's pray. Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for yet another time to fellowship around the written word on the subject of the supernatural world seated on high. Thank you for the light you brought our way and the body of Christ. We ask this morning that you grant us further understanding. We believe and receive that doubts are cleared this morning, that myths are unraveled and clarified in our eyes, and there is no darkness or dark spots or shadows in our understanding of who you are. And together as a church, we build Jesus Christ, your Son, even as he sees us in heaven. This study is glorified as we edified and built up by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside those who hear us on the body of Christ. Amen. Let's have a seat. 2Nd Timothy 3.

I'm still not going to be able to get into how idols emerge, but by the time we get there, you discover that we have been there already. So pay attention. 2Nd Timothy 3:16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. It's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And we said that if all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is referring to the Old Testament, the epistles therefore rest its revelation on the truth of the Old Testament. So we ask the question, does the epistles retain the context of the Old Testament? The Old Testament was largely, basically supernatural in its thinking, which means that the way we are, we're going to look at something and there's a man I'm going to quote and some comments that he made.

I was not getting to the Book of Mark, but maybe I'll just hint it a bit in the second session. But when we look at that, Jesus actually dealt with territories, because in that Matthew 16, why did Jesus choose areas? He chose areas, definite areas, in Matthew 16, when he says, upon this rock I'll build my church and the gates of hell. And he was in a geographical area. And by saying gates of hell. And when Peter says, you are the Christ, son of living God, Jesus actually confronted a territorial authority by that statement. And that gives us the pattern of the kind of gospel that we preach in today's world.

We said that the word gospel itself from the Old Testament, that's why the Greek is a little bit dodgy when you use huajalion, even though huaji Leon, also explanatory, also brings in the concept of the sota, the person, authority and noble. But what carries it the most is that Old Testament term of basa, where basa talks about war. It's majorly news from war. News about war or a territory, you know, won by war. And if that is the meaning of preaching the gospel, then my mindset, right, can never. That's why Paul says that is not by the enticing words of man's wisdom. It has to be by the Spirit's power. First Corinthians 2, 1:5. And so our thinking has to be Bible thinking. And context is key, right? Context is very important.

Just this morning, somebody just less than 10 minutes ago, someone texted me. He's a pastor I'd known for about 30 years, maybe less than 30 years. So he said, I got what you said about context that the Bible is in. He said to an audience and he says, the local church, he said, but some of us, we got our revelation outside the local church. I said, well, I guess Jesus will answer that. That what I just told you is plain. He said, yes, I'll stay with that because that's what's plain. I don't know what the relationship was not talking about. And I didn't want to hear it because I wanted to keep our relationship. So the context is key. What did the audience hear? You know, what did they hear?

And we said that they were not as daft as we assumed that they were. That's the Old Testament audience. So let's get back to this. So if the scriptures written, right, with the context of supernatural. Hebrews 11, letter of Hebrews. So it says in verse one, faith. And when he talks about faith here, and you know, we said that the word faith here is a codified language, right? It brings in many terms together. Faith is our belief in God's faithfulness. And God's faithfulness or the long suffering of God is the Old Testament. So you can call this the Old Testament is the substance of things old. For you can call this term Old Testament books. And it says the evidence of things not seen. So the word not seen was repeated so that you won't lose sight of it.

Then it also says, we see. I mean, look, Hebrews 11, 12, 2 looking also verses not seen. So here are you looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of faith or his faithfulness. You don't even find physical sight in that explanation. So he says here things hope for things not seen. Providers of faith. We understand that the worlds were framed. And on Sunday, I think we looked at the word walls. Where in today's terminology, when we say world, we are referring to the earth, space or the planet. But the Old Testament person and the New Testament or the I saw world, Ainian and cosmos as a present system order of things. And they could be referring to a building as world, they could be referring to an activity as world, whereas it will not be conformed to this world.

For example, in Romans 12:1, if we are going to look at that word technically, where Paul says don't be conformed to this world, was talking about that dichotomy between Jews and Greeks, that is the Gentiles and the Jews. But be transformed of your mind that you may present that which is good. I said I'm sorry. Verse one, when it says mercy of God, I present your body. So that's union, a living sacrifice. That's the union of Gojus and Gentiles, who of course with God, which is your reasonable worship, which is that God has built a temple. That's why his temple has built a temple that have Jews and Greeks together. So you present that union. It is in that you renew your mind.

So technically he was talking about, look, there is no Daikoto because that's what dealing with throughout the book, the unity of, you know, Jews and Gentiles. He dealt with that till the last chapter. Course he presented the fact that the Jews were the vehicle to which God rode to nations in Romans 9:11. So just like here too, when he says things hoped for, then he says by worlds. So the worlds here will mean activities, the order of things, those things that we see in God's faithfulness. All right, it's dealing with men, which is the Old Testament. So you can say Hebrews 11:1 is also men. The Old Testament books, the activities, the promises, the covenants is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. It says by it the worlds were framed.

So when you say worlds there, that means how things happened. Right, how things happened, what happened to men through men were framed by the word of God that the things that are seen were not made of things which do appear. Which means there was a heavenly perspective, a supernatural world perspective to the things that we read. So if this is the context of the Old Testament, the question is, did the New Testament author retain it? Well, if it doesn't, it will be. Now don't forget that the Old Testament part of the Bible is the cultural context. Now it's a bit tricky because how do you separate the cultural context from the religion? Every culture has religion. That's why God also borrowed religions in communicating his Word.

There's a whole lot of borrowed practices of the worship of deities in the Old Testament, expression of God's revelation. And the reason why it was so is because that was what was available. So the Old Testament context will be that culture. All right, what is that culture will be the Old Testament. Let me say this. It's not as smooth to find out what is the Old Testament as people do it. And that one fell swoop approach is why we keep having issues with the authority of the Old Testament. Let me give you an instance now where and if you go and read the book, his righteousness we did do some expression, and the coming book will have a bit more clarity. Also, the one we have on the Lord Jesus Christ should be out before believers convention.

Now that one, in that book, we did say that, yeah, Moses gave laws. And in those laws, if you picked or you took books and you could not check yourself, if you do book take books that were contemporaneous, that is contemporary, which were written about the same time, you will discover that those laws were similar. Okay, so now if those laws were similar, that is the Old Testament context or content, that means Moses simply took an existing law, then edited it to suit the culture of the church. Are you following what I'm saying here now? That everything that he did was for all purpose, to carry a revelation, a culture, to carry a truth to the people, to make a change?

No, we said that just like we live in Israel, the book is, and of many other things we have done, that it was progressive, gradual, you know, so at that point, whatever. And that's why the Hebrew writer says the polytropos and polymoros in, you know, he kept giving, bringing his word gradually. So in that gradually, you will find existing cultures and practices that is not unique to scripture. But let me just mention this. It is said that in human history, and this can be checked, whether it's by archaeology or anthropology, that the Ten Commandments and the law of Moses was actually revolutionary in human history, that the origin of human rights and, you know, protection of civil liberties stemmed from the law of Moses because it was like a counter culture in that existing world.

So the Old Testament portion would be what was taken from man cultural wise. Culture wise. For example, the issue of tithe. I said that on Sunday that tithe didn't come from God. Now we can say all things come from God. You know what I mean by that? You know, it's like a new statement. But tithe didn't come from God. The concept of the Passover didn't come from God. The concept of the feasts, you know, you could see them in other cultures. Horsefruits. But what there's an argument I can put forth later. And this is the truth that what sin does oftentimes to pervert what is good, you know? So perversion came. And God will always call light out of darkness. So he took it. Okay, this is what you guys are thinking.

Let me use this that you brought in the concept of the circumcision of the heart. Man was limited by the flesh. He now brought that of the heart. And Macy said it. Job 30, he said, your heart will sacrifice that of your seed that you may live in the land that God has promised you. And sins that Abraham. So circumstances of the flesh is human culture, Old Testament, not circumcision itself. Because our heart by believing is not circumcised. Same thing as the feast eating of unleavened bread is in human history. But the fellowship with those that you were delivered and set, put together, where you see yourself as the same, is the word of God. Is that very clear. So the Old Testament is something that you can't rush into it. You can't say, that's Old Testament. A man must have God, woman.

I said that's Old Testament. You can wear anything. Then you missed it. Because in the concept of God holiness, when you go to Canaan, that's the world system. Whatever brings worship, even in clothes, you separate yourself from it. That's the New Testament part of that Old Testament message. I mean vessel. You get it? So there is the what is the intestine? Why was this said? And you will discover that when it comes to the word of God, the why is really what's important. Why did he ask them not to eat certain foods? It's not dietary, it's not for health at all. It's because of worship. I've said that before. We're going to also look at Leviticus again on that because of the issue of the blood of Jews and all that. So God, back to what we're saying.

The New Testament writer, does he retain the culture? No, he doesn't. He can't. Because this is Greco Roman. In fact, the very fact that by the time Jesus came as a man, they were using the Greek Bible, the self taught already shows you that things have changed. Culture wise or culturally wise. But the message remains the same. And as we have emphasized, no author of the New Testament or speaker, Jesus inclusive, did anything to denigrate the Old Testament books. There was nothing of that nature. That's the Old Testament, leave it alone. Nobody made such comments. And so we shouldn't. So now, does the New Testament up or return the context? Of course, on Sunday we began to look at the. I don't know whether I should start because starting on that one today may be tough. Maybe next week. I'll do it tomorrow again.