All right. Second Timothy, chapter three. Quick. Still unseated on high. Second Timothy 3, 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. I must mention this. I would say I explained what was on Sunday, on Monday, and there's an attempt to use this like a general rule across the board. But this is a very specific statement that has to do with. Notice that the context says about the fight of faith, about false teachers. That's really the context. Because if you are not careful, we say that every scripture must be this. I know. Not impose this statement on every text. We do that. Oftentimes we just take one general, one text and just run it through all the Bible.

But then the point is that either way, Paul is giving credence to the use of all scripture in teaching. So we have said that the. Let me say something. I said over time that before Jesus came the Old Testament books, as we call them, they were called the word of God. When he came. The Old Testament books were called the word of God when he rose from the dead and ascended. In Luke 24:25, 27:44-45, the Old Testament books were called the word of God in the book of Acts, which is the background of the epistles, because there is this attempt. Sometimes the epistles is the word of God. And all of that in the New Testament books, which we refer to as the Epistles. The Old Testament books were equally called the word of God.

So there was no time that there was a repudiation of any sort of the Old Testament books. And we have said that the context. We have different context of the Old Testament books, any book anyway. We have the cultural context, historical context. But theological context is what the two books, assuming we want to use that definition, they retain theological context, which means that. What do I mean by that? They are preaching about the same God. John 5:39. You search scriptures for them. You think you have to life. 40. They are daily testify of me. It's the same person. John 5:45. Pink men have come to accuse you, the fathers who accuse you. Moses, whom you trust, had you believed his writings, his words. You have believed my words writings, for he wrote of me. So which means that theology is the same.

Theology simply means study of God. So theology remains the same. Okay, Hebrews 1:1 God who has hundred times in diverse manner spoken time passed to our fathers in the prophets. I said, this last is spoken in his Son, so that retains theology. Theology is the same Hebrews 11:1. By the faithfulness of God. Sorry, faithfulness of God is a substance of things owed for the evidence of things not seen. So the elders obtained a good report by it. The we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, that things that were seen were not made of things which do appear. So theological context of the Old Testament is sustained in the New Testament writers. And if you look at it very well, Genesis becomes the context of Exodus becomes the context of Genesis. So which means it's the same God.

And in Exodus 20 and Jeremy 5, it talks about the God who made the heavens and the earth in Exodus, then he says that in Deuteronomy 5, the one who rescued them from bondage in Egypt. So that theology remains the same. And when you run through up to the Psalms, they talk about the God who rescued Egypt, redeeming God. So theology is the same thing. So if theology is the same, the cultural context is not the same, because even Israel evolved culturally. The historical context, of course, is not the same. That's why we came up with the concept of identification unifiers. And then.

So if it's not the same, but theology is the same, if theology is the same, that means that what is involved in theology of the Old Testament, mortal men, as it were, relate with an immortal God, a supernatural being called Yahweh Elohim. And if that is the context of the Old Testament, it therefore means that theological context is a supernatural world context. So because it's the same God. And one of the things we have also done over the years is to show that Jesus is not just a mere prophecy of the Old Testament, an active actor in the Old Testament books. And if that is the case, it therefore means it's the same Jesus. Right before Abraham, I am Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it and he was glad. John 8, 56 and 58, I will go all on that.

Matthew 28:20. Lo, I am with you always to the end of the age. If he is the same one, the Yahweh Adoni of the Old Testament, it therefore means that theology of the New Testament, the Old Testament is the same. Now the big question is, did it evolve? Sure. Is there a progressive revelation? Oh, sure, there is a progressive revelation that is sustained. But in the Incarnation we have a definite revelation, very definite, conclusive, that emerges with God's plan and purposes through Jesus. So having said that, it means that theological context of the Old and New Testament is the same now this is where the issue is. We need to weave through carefully and drive very carefully through the different worlds. The different world. Just like asked about the wars. You can't impose today's modernity on ancient text. And it's very. It's not.

It's just that's what some of these atheist scientists try to do. I asked him that. You are talking about some thousands of years ago. You can't use today's thinking like them. Or you can now start arguing there's modern thinking today is more superior. That's for debate. Another debate entirely. But theological context remains the same because it talks about the same God and Jesus at the center of it. Not just in New Testament worlds, but in the Old Testament world as well. From Genesis 3, 8 through to the Exodus, through to David, through to Isaiah. And all of that is right in the middle of it. Not as a man, but as the embodied Yahweh visible, relatable. And if that is the case, theology is the same.

The supernatural world context, which is theology of the Old Testament was sustained by the New Testament world or writers. So that's very vital. And if it is also very conscious that the Old Testament had. We have the idea is the Old Testament that uses much of this gods. I am very careful with the use of idols because idols are effigies and images and figurines. That's not the being itself. Idols are effigies. And when you see the new test, the Old Testament says they cannot hear, they cannot see. He's talking about the effigies, the figurines, the images. The images are usually man made. But when you look at the image of God is man. Genesis 1:26 28, which can see here a relatable and a living being. That's why.

So I think because of that lack of understanding of the images of the idols, images of the supernatural beings and let's call them sons of God whatever were host of heaven. Jeremiah chapter 4 concept. Because of the way later writers now refer to the images, not the beings themselves. We assume that the gods they worship were just physical objects. No, that's. Those are the images. Now when it comes to man, sorry to God's image is a living being. Genesis 2:7, Moses breath of life. And we see that it's a living being. Let's make mine in our image after. I like this. Genesis 1:26:28. He's able to reproduce. So and why is that narrative now? If you sit in that audience there are seeing A polemic, a counter narrative to their own world.

I say, well, God's Yahweh's own Selim, which is the word image, is a living being. Yahweh's own Selim is a living being, can relate with Yahweh, can relate with other creatures and all of that. So that the essence of showing Adam relatable in Genesis 2 is to make a distinction between Yahweh's image and other images. Is that very clear? You know, we said the last time that it's not only the Bible, that the Bible never existed in the Viking. There are other books that were in circulation, okay, that were being read or other materials. And so the Bible will take much language from those books. One, two. It will also seek to correct the things that they present.

So in verses one, what we have seen is a correction that this is God's own temple, it's the old earth, it's not a particular space in the earth. And he multiplies his image and his likeness across the earth, which is called his glory. So if that is the case, then the concept of idols can talk. Here is the images of the supernatural beings. The images of the supernatural beings. So that's a mockery by saying their Salems can't talk, can't speak, can't hear, can't relate. It's a mockery on their expression. Then you look at Yahweh's expression, he's a living being and more. So the effigies of these beings are usually created by men who seek to worship them. But Yahweh's own is made by him. That's why Acts 7:48 says he doesn't dwell in temples made with human hands.

Which means that his temple is what he built by himself, whether it's the earth or man, that is in his likeness and his image. Does that make sense? So does the New Testament world. Does it retain this context? Oh sure it does. It does in every way and every manner. So let's review something again. Zeremi32. And verse 8. I was going to look at something. Let me just check the way I arrange these notes. And verse 8, we have seen that the Bible answers the emergence of gods, which is called foreign gods in the nations of the earth. Job 32:8, when the Most High divided to the nation's inheritance, when he separated sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people according to the law of Jew of Israel.

Of course, when we look at the same chargings of that the self serving Bible Says when the most High displayed nations as kadashins, set up boundaries of the nations according to number of the angels of God. Now, I wanted to deal with the concept of the word most High. Okay, hold on a bit. Go back to the Second Kings. Put your hands in there. Second Kings six, the one the brother was asking about. And. Five. Sorry, Second Kings five, when Naaman came to Elisha. And now let's look at the extent this is. And he says to him, what does this represent? You must know the language now, because the ancient Israelites or the ancient Near Eastern culture had the belief that the world is a supernatural world. So anywhere that a being is worshipped, right, It's a supernatural space for them.

Intersection between the supernatural and natural and all that. So, but now why did he ask for the earth? I think that's a question we should criticize a little bit, Critique a little bit. Why did he say, let me just take the stand, or where you are. I know today some will do it. I mean, if you know the. What you call the. Some white garment churches, they do that a whole lot. And let's. Let me expand your thinking a bit. And you see that they would say, there's a land. So where they call it, where they pray. So they will take the sand and go and take it somewhere. And you know, very easily we say that.

But we look at the fact that there was a woman with the issue of God in Mark 5 that touched the hem of Jesus's garment and she was cured. Now if you stretch out Paul In Acts 19:11, you have. They took Abrams to the body of Paul. Now are you seeing there's a sustenance somewhere? And they took it to the body of Paul and took it to the sick and they were healed. Now go back to that Second Kings again and see what the guy did. He said, give me. Now, the first thing that happened was he came to. There's a whole lot of themes of New Testament you'll find there. He came to Elisha and said, I mean, the maid. Let's start from the fact that the maid asked him, you know, to go and meet the prophets, you know, and all that.

So he goes, Elisha says, don't come and see me. Go to the Jordan, all those things. And you now come to New Testament that Jesus is baptized at the same Jordan. You, you go back a little bit and discover that Jordan was important in how Israel crossed over. It was the second Red Sea experience, and he crossed over. We've done this study before. Anyway, cross over to the Promised Land of the Old Testament. Then he now says, go and wash seven times. And those were the number of times that they circled. What do you call it now? Jericho. Before they got into the Promised land. Two things could happen there. One, a symbolism of their world, which means a full cycle.

Two, also is the fact that you notice that Rahab, when Rahab was taking the spice, we have heard what the God of Israel did, which means that those exploits, when God takes care of those idols, when he rescues Israel, it becomes news to others. Is that gospel? That's bizarre. It becomes news to others. So Rahab had heard it. Rahab did not believe when the spies came. She had heard the news before. She expressed her faith when the spies came. That is why James identified what Rahab did to the works of faith, not the believing itself. Are you following what I'm saying? By identifying with the believers, There are those who are spies from Joshua. She says she's a loyal, faithful believer of Yahweh God. So this guy is also likely to have hurt. All right, Like I said, it's a proposition.

But the key thing was, as soon as he was healed, of course, he judged. What everybody does should do honors with gifts. And why this is an important story was because in Luke 4, in talking to the nation of Israel or the Jews, sorry About Acts Isaiah 61 and Isaiah 58, across the board, he talks about the fact that there were many lepers in Israel, many. So how come it was a Syrian, a Gentile, that approached Elisha for healing? He heard, right? Did he show faith in it? Yes, he did follow themes of the gospel there. Those are things of the gospel. Now I'm making a connection quickly with the woman with the issue of blood, who also heard on that day when she touched the clothes of Jesus. Listen carefully, all that. We're doing it. But as was faith, she believed.

So she goes. I mean, he goes and he says, okay, does what he asks her to do, him to do, which is the first time you see a leper cleansed in that river, is the first time. There's no other story before that subscribes to that. So she now says to this, he says, okay, look at 15 second kings. Behold, I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now, therefore, I pray, take the blessing of thy servant. There is no God. That is the Old Testament confession of salvation because it's amongst other gods. Yahweh is God. That's salvation. Salvation to the Old Testament saints. Is not Jesus going to come and die for Your sins. But no, no, no. That wasn't available for them even to. That wasn't God's message to them. Okay, Was.

Yahweh is God above all gods. And that's what comes to concept of Most High. But he says, as Isaiah said, I'm not seeing anything. He refused. Verse 17 says, okay, shall not there then I pray thee to be given to thy servants. Two moves. Now stop a bit a look for when Jesus makes reference to verse 27. Can we call that a codified language? Huh? Why inquired this morning. Can we call that codified language that? He's not quoting our context when he talks about Naaman. He wants us to read the whole story, right? The whole story. The word is preached was the word preached are acted upon. Fine. So he takes the moon of the earth, burning of the earth for your servant will therefore offer. Therefore now notice what he called your servant. Burnt offering or sacrifice to other gods.

But unto the Lord he said to offer sacrifice. Is that worship? So the ancient Israelites and in the ancient world, the whole world is a place of worship. It depends on who you are worshiping. So he says, I'm going there and I'm going to worship another God. Now, why does he take the earth? It's like a point of contact at that point. That is how much his faith believes or can understand. So he takes it. He says, I'm going to go and I'm taking it with me to worship. What is he saying? I will be taking the temple of God from where you are to where I'm going to. Because where you are is a sacred area, a supernatural ground. It's a place of worship. And he has already said something. He says, there's no other God in all the earth.

So we have seen a theme of evangelism in worship. He has done to take. Now, what do you do when you believe the gospel? You take what you have right to where you are going. Am I right? That's a theme of the gospel in that background. So now this is where people miss it. The use of the sand, right? Is cultural. That is not theology. The worship of God in the earth is theology there. So now if you now take the sand. Now if it was the sand, for example, to be healed. Being healed is not the worship is a confession and action that proceeds afterwards. Worship. I would have no grouse. If anybody uses anointing oil or whatever they call olive oil and say, bring your olive oil, let's pray on it. Bring water, let's pray on it. Bring Sand.

Let's pray on it. Just that depending on the kind of auditorium it's not bring sand. And all places the works department, operations department will have to be working every 30 minutes except we start doing church outside. So sand just. But the man said this sand. Yeah, this sand is the power of God. Then you have crossed into worshipping items. You have crossed. You are now retaining an Old Testament cultural context. Because when you say the anointing oil is the Holy Spirit in a bottle, that is false doctrine. If I pray in this oil, you'll be healed. That's very biblical. James 5, they prayed over oil. Of course that context is also medicinal. Whatever it's not God will get anybody healed with anything. If you pray to rice and beans, you pray into cocoro bones. You know, coco bones is okay pizza.

But when you say this pizza is what? Because man is the image of God. Is that clear? Aha. So you're taking your attention of the plan of God and you are going to think that's where problems. So now there's something in here which I'll just look at. And this is where there is a where in the worship of God. In the old Testament, the first Psalm 126, just before this. And verse 19, This is David when he was having issues with Saul. Aside from 17, Saul knew David's voice and said, is that his voice, my son David? Is this voice my son David? David said, it's my voice, my Lord, O King. Therefore does my Lord pursue after his servant. For what have I done? What evil is mine? Now notice David's cry.

He said, now therefore I pray, my lord the King, hear the words of his servants. If the Lord has stirred thee up against me, let me accept an offering. But if it be the children of men, cursed be that they before the Lord, for they have watched what he said. For they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, go serve other gods. So he's saying that where matters where you have pushed me to right, he uses a land. This land is where I serve God. You have pushed me to a place to serve other gods. First Samuel 26. I'll read you from subsurgence and verse 19. You have okay. They have given me out today so that I cannot settle in the inheritance of the Lord, which is the place where he was.

So where I am now, this place is for other gods. So territories had to do with worship. Territories were worship places. Because in the mind of the audience here and this particular Time, the whole world was a supernatural space. So if you drive me to this place, you have driven me out of a place of worship. I'm in another place where it's also a place of worship, but not the place where. Where Yahweh is worshipped. So, and does New Testament retain that? Look at the Great Commission. The Great Commission is about people and places, nations. This is all the earth, so it retains that thing. That's one, two. Look at specific things when you come together. So when you come together is specific. When you come together and you find Paul warn us not to have fellowship with devils.

1 Corinthians 10:15 down to 19 with devils, places. When he says, when you eat, offers, I say the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. So that theology is sustained about the world being a supernatural space. So what we do gives identity to where we are, what we do. Why is this church? Because of what we do. And that identity is not the building. That identity is the supernatural context of what we are doing. So the New Testament, does it retain it? It does. Visibly so it does. So go to genesis 32. And verse 8, when the most High divided to the nations their inheritance. When he separated sons of Adam, said him. Conversely, the number of the sons of God. I think we've gone through this again and again. The numbers of the sons of God. Now, most high is a comparison.

Most high is a comparison. The first time we are going to see the use of most High is Genesis 14, most high. I'm saying this because we are going to look at some of the New Testament, Genesis 14, and that was Melchizedek. Verse 18, it says Melchizedek. Melchizedek. He was the priest of the Most High God because there were other priests. Priesthood has to do with worship. In fact, Priesthood has to do with worship. Egypt has its own priest. So of the Most High God. Here used by. Wait one second. Of the Most High. Most High is in comparison to other gods, like this is the Most High. Not to say that he's senior. No, the Creator God. So verse 18, verse 19, verse 20 and 22.

So you look at that word most holy in the Book of Exodus, majorly, it's for most High. Sorry, you have Most Holy. Majorly, Most holy. Most holy. But look at Numbers 24 and Verse 16. Now, if you pay very good attention, the context of this also has to do with idols, all right? And around the Gentiles, he says. He has said that heard the words of God and knew the knowledge of The Most High which he saw the vision of the mighty falling the trance and having his eyes open. So we have Most High Elyon E L, Y O N. Then you have at the background Deuteronomy 32:6 you just read but let's skip that and go to 2nd Samuel 22:14.

And Most High also has is when you are now talking about other nations one as a comparison number two where you are now referring to other nations who are in a call it Gentile territory. 2Nd Samuel 22. And verse 14 the Lord thundered from heaven and the Most High uttered his voice. The Lord thunder from heaven again, the supernatural world context is used here. Then look at the Book of Psalms where you have it majorly Psalm 7, verse 17. Let's just run through it together. Psalm 7, verse 17 I praise the Lord according to I will praise to the name of the Lord Most high. Psalm 9:2 I praise to thy name, O most high God.

Psalm 21, verse 7 Psalm 21 and verse 7 Psalm 46:4 Psalm 47:2 Psalm 50, verse 14 Psalm 56:2 Psalm 57, verse 2 I'll take it again Psalm 7, verse 17 Psalm 9, verse 2 Psalm 21 Verse 7 Psalm 40, verse 4 Psalm 47, verse 2 Psalm 50 Verse 14 Psalm 56:2Salm 57, verse 2 Psalm 93:11 Psalm 77:10 Psalm 78 Verse 17 Psalm 78 let's look at our Psalms 78 Psalm 78, verse 7:2. They sinned yet more against him by provoking the Most High in the wilderness. Now what did they do there? Was Was there idolatry in the wilderness? Yeah. And foreign gods. Verse 46. 56. Sorry. They tempted and provoked the Most High God and kept not their kept not his testimonies.

55 Says he cast out the eaten before them and divided them inheritance by line and made travelers to dwell in their tents. Look at 57. And they turned back and dealt faithful like their fathers. They turned aside like in the Snowball. Look at 58. He says they provoked him to hang out with their high places and move into Jersey with their graven images. So Most High is in relative sense to other gods. Psalm 82, verse 6. You are God, all of you children of the Most High. Say again in context of God's 83, verse 18 Psalm 91. He that dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. Then verse nine. Thou makes the Lord, which is my refuge, the Most High Diabetic. Now of course here it talks about supernatural beings, verse 5.

The Terror by night, how that flies by day, the pestilence that walks in darkness. The structure that wist at noon be then. Yeah. So this. Okay, you can see verse 11 shall give His Savior shall over the Egypt. Verse 12, buried up in their hands. Verse 13. The lion or the other, the young lion and the dragon. All these are supernatural world beings. Yeah, these are not zoo animals. Okay, so it has Most High, Psalm 92, Verse 1, Most High God. Then Verse 8, Psalm 107, Verse 11. So Most High is a description of God in that supernatural world amidst supernatural beings. One, two also has to do with other nations. As I praise you, Most High is other nations. Now go to Isaiah 14 and verse 14. I will ascend above the clouds or the heights of the clouds I will be.

Now clouds will be the supernatural also of heaven. Right. I will be like the Most High. That's very vital. Like the Most high. Lamentations 3, 35 and 38. Now, another place where you find Most High very used is the book of Daniel. And Daniel is in Babylon, Right? And you know that whether you look at the three Hebrew children, up to Daniel, the contest was about worship of idols, right? So Daniel 3. And verse 26, Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of bony filled furnace and spake and said, shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, you servants of the Most High God, come forth. Why did he say Most High God? Because there was a clash, and I told you that the burning furnace. Now we will see it as literally burning furnaces, the fire and all that.

But Israel and what happened to them in Egypt is also called that burning furnace. So just like the Exodus was a clash of God and gods, let me say, I mean, show the authority that he created them. This is what is happening here. So Nebuchadnezzar was also said, this is the Most High God. Again in relative sense to other beings. Daniel 4:17. The matter is about you of the watchers and the mind of the Word of the holy ones. You see, Watchers, holy ones to the intent that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men and gives whosoever he will sets up over the basis of men. Again, among supernatural beings is called Most High, Verse 24, Decree of the Most High, which is common upon my Lord the King.

Verse 25, verse 32, verse 34, 25, 32, 35 Daniel 5:18. Again, worship is in view. And 21 Daniel 7:18. The saints of the king of the Most High shall Take the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, even forever and ever. Daniel 7:18, Daniel 7:22 Unto the ancient of this came and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High. And the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom. 25 And 27 go to Uzziah 7:16. So this is in Babylon. So that. That shows you that there were supernatural beings worshipped in nations. But this is in Bible say the Most High is here. So what we are seeing what an Old Testament reader is reading here, Daniel, Abednego, and of course others of their kind are in a mission field. That's what it is.

So that's why we have that concept of Most high God. Hosea 7 and 16. They return not to the Most High. Their prisons shall fall by the sword of the reeds of their tongue, and they shall be delusion in the land of Egypt. Again, this is idol worship in context. Hosea 11 and verse 7. And my poor bent to backsliding. For me, backsliding is actually worship of other idols. So you have Most High used in the relative sense of idol worship. So where is. How did nations have idols? I'm using the word idols because of modern thinking, right? You know, we're not talking about idols, right? We're talking about supernatural beings, hosts of heaven. Am I right? But let me use idols because of how it can easily, you know, resonate what I'm saying to you.

Luke 22:8 says that it was the Most High that divided the nations, okay, According to the number of the sons of God. And of course, there's an argument that is talking about nature of Israel, but it's very weak. It doesn't even fly. So this is Genesis 11. Interesting. Genesis 11, a very short commentary and carries a lot. Genesis 11. And what's happening? Genesis 11. People in one accord are building a sacred place for God. Okay, we're going to see Paul's argument here. I wrote it on Monday. Genesis 11:4 to build up a zuga at a city and a tower. Now, this is the text of Jeremiah 2:8. Now look at Paul's interpretation before we get there. Acts 7 and 48, don't forget the term most high. Is that clear? We say most high is in comparison, right?

Also, when you cross into Gentile territory, that's ancient Israelite, right? When it comes to Gentile territory, where they are in the worship of other gods, you say most High gods. That Most High God we call becomes a codified language for the fact that we are the chosen people. God has allowed the nations to go after their lost. Then he created his own mission called Israel to reach out to the old nations, so that all through Israel, all nations of the earth will be blessed. That's the codified language behind Most High God. Look at Acts 17. So how does the New Testament writer the author, how do they use this concept? We're going to see shortly. Are you here? Are you following. Acts 17? Okay. Acts 7 first, where you have Stephen is preaching. Then notice the context verse. I'll start from verse 40.

I'll start from 39. To whom our fathers will not obey, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back again unto Egypt, saying to Aaron, make us gods to go before us. For as for this Moses, which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him. This is Exodus 32, then verse one. Then it says, they made a calf in those days and offered sacrifices to the idol and rejoice in the works of their own hands. Now, notice that when they made that. Notice this very well. They made the calf, which is an image, right? That image is supposed to be like the expression the selem of an unseen God. He said, these are the gods that took us out of Egypt. They couldn't have said this? This thing that we just made now.

But they are saying that, look, if Moses will. So if wherever Moses, there are some beings we can interact with. I did not make a molting calf. Pay attention to how Stephen gets in on this. Then God, they made a calf and rejoiced in the works of their own hands. The works of their own hands. Is that Genesis 11? Because they are the works of their own hands. Now, the works of their hands there is the place of dwelling of the being. The works of their own hands. You notice that the two people. Asides, let's look at the sacred. First thing we have Genesis 3:2. Sorry. God planted his own garden. That's the genesis. Then in Genesis 6 and 7, he gave Noah the description of how he should build. That's a temple, not a boat. Okay? He gave him the scripture.

Do this, do that. So by Genesis 11, men built it by themselves. Okay, pay attention. By themselves. So in Exodus 25, God again gives Moses description that you build according to pattern that is shown to you. So it's not the building that is the issue. It is how they build. You cannot build for God. He is the one that will tell you where he will dwell. Is that very clear? Aha. So this is the point. They God turned. Verse 42 and gave them to worship. Gave them to worship. What? When? Act seven. To worship what? So notice Host of heaven has been changed. Gods, right? Are you following? Host of heaven is written in the book of the prophets. Whole year of Israel have you offered to me. Slaves be the sacrifice to the space of 40 years.

In the wilderness they took up the tabernacle of Moloch, the star of your God Reman figures which you have made to worship them. And I'll carry you away. Beyond Babylon our fathers had tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had pointed speaking to Moses that he should make it according to the fashion he had seen. Now, they did this while Moses was building a space for God. I mean for them to worship and interact with God. They went behind to go and build something. Our fathers, verse 45, which are also our fathers, which came with Jesus. The position of Gentiles whom God drove out before their fathers in the days of David, who found favor before God and desire to find tabernacle for the God of Jacob. But Solomon built him a house. I said, but Solomon built him a house.

How be it? He says, the most high dwells not in temples made with hands, as saith the prophet, Heaven is my footstool. So there are two things that come in there. His house is the whole earth. So to say this is his house is to demean his person. That's what happened in Genesis 11, to demean him the earth. Imagine somebody telling you get coming to your house and saying that is. And says that room is your house. Are you crazy? The earth is his house. So when you build a place for him, right? It in itself, it is a lack of disrespect, a whole sense of dishonor. Why then did he tell Moses to build? Moses was building so that they will see the picture of the earth. That was why Solomon said, this place is not your house. Solomon said it.

He said, the heavens cannot contain you. So every time they were building said, no, this is not the place. But this is just to be a witness of what the earth is to you. Are you following what we are saying here? Are you following what I'm saying here? Good. So when this happened, it says how being 48, the most high dwells not in temples made with hands. Does this go back to Genesis 11, verse 4 through to 8 temples made with hands. So we can say therefore that the Bible is also a book of God's plan for the earth. It's a book of God's plan for the earth. Now look at Acts 17 pay attention to that word temple. Maybe hands. Paul is in a place again where worship is inferred. I'll just. Verse 22.

Paul stood in the midst of Mass Hill and said, you men of Athens are perceiving all things that you are too superstitious for. As I passed by, I beheld your devotions. I found an altar within this inscription. To the unknown God whom you ignorantly worship him declare I to you. Pay attention. God had made the worlds and all things therein. Okay, Seeing that he is the Lord of heaven and earth dwells not in temples made with hands, can you see the contrast? So what is this temple? The whole earth, right? Then it says, neither is worshipped with men's hands. Where is Paul taking us? Back to Genesis 11. Follow as though he needs anything, seeing he gives to all life and breath and all things. So this is the issue in Genesis 11. He does not need it. He doesn't need anything.

By you saying I'll do something for him is an insult. It's a whole lot of dishonor. He doesn't need anything. Seeing that he gave life to all. Then he says in 26, and made of one blood, all nations of men for to dwell on the face of the earth. And appointed the times, and examined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation, that he should seek the Lord, if aptly they might find him, though he be not far. Look at what he's saying here. Paul is saying, it's not what you are building that is making a housewife. It's everywhere is everywhere. The building is to now restore the earth as his sacred place.

So when we come to church and we worship God, and we're here hearing his word, and we face one another and take away the barriers of disunity and division, we are restoring the earth to his original state. When we go to preach the gospel, that's what we are doing. When we display the life of God at work, and Jesus says, the meek will inherit the earth. When we walk in the Spirit, we don't put the lust of the flesh. We are putting the earth back to its original cause. Are you following what I'm saying here? Are you listening here? Very well. So Paul now says, look for him we live and move and have our being as certain of your own prophets or poets. Or you have said, for we are his offspring.

For as much as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is unlike unto gold or silver or stone given by a heart and man's device for the times of this ignorance, God Wintert now commands all men everywhere to repent, because he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. That by man whom he had ordained thereof, he had given assurance to all, and that he had raised him from the dead. We're going to see the important of the dead as we proceed. So. So Paul is writing for Genesis 11:4 and obviously Romans 32, verse 8 and 9. That's the core of what he's saying there, that you don't build for him. You don't.

And I think this is also important, that when you say you are giving to God, I know it's what I give to God. We must understand what it means. We are missing the needs of men whom God has identified with. He does not need anything. Is that very clear? He does not need anything. That in itself is worship. He does not need anything. You are not helping him, you are not assisting him. He does not need anything. So Most High is a term of worship, relative sense, said amongst other gods, because there are other gods, other God, other supernatural beings. And he says, go back to Acts 7. They worship the host of heaven. So does the New Testament writer, does he retain the Old Testament context supernaturally or he does. Acts 7 Again, 42, the host of heaven. Romans 1:24.

God gave them to uncleanness. Romans 1:26 gave them to vile affections. Romans 1:28 gave them to a reprobate mind. So he gave them over. This is the explanation of Genesis 11. He gave them up. And it is not a singular event. Genesis shows patterns. It's a consistent pattern zone 32, 8 and 9, Jeremiah, chapter 4. You see, God gave them over. Exodus 32, he gave them over. It's like, okay, I give you what you want. I give you what you want. You know, we also did this study and we found out that in Exodus 32 to 33, when they started to worship other hosts of heaven and created an effigy, or call it, we call it now, a figurine for them, he said, okay, I will send angel. And Moses said, Moses knew that by sending angel, God is seating Israel like other nations.

Are you following? Let's read. Let's see. You know, we said that in Exodus. I'm talking about in this series, not this morning. Exodus 23, 20 and 21, that I said, I'll send my angel. You know, my name is in him. That's Jesus. You know, we have done that study. Are you here? So that means Jesus, the visible God, was with them in the Exodus. But when they now decided they were going to worship other gods. Exodus 33 we did this again even in fully your blessing in God. The Lord said, verse one Depart and go up hence, and who you are brought up out of the land of Egypt or the land which I swore to the of then he says in 22 I will send angel before thee. I will send angel before thee. Verse 2.

Now you wondered I'll send angel before thee. And I mean, they go before you and all that to go before you. Then the Lord said, look at verse four. No, Mandy put okay, verse seven. Okay. No, Verse four. When the people have these evil tidings, they mourned, that is, when I will send angel desire morning. Why? Because in Exodus 23 and 20 he said, I will send my angel. We have done a study on this already. It's already a series. I will send angel before thee. Then he says, this angel is talking about he says, do not let him obey his voice. He will not. Parallel transgression. For my name is in verse 23, my angel.

I will say that when you look at the grammatical context of that, it's talking about himself, the visible God, the one that Jacob says, my God, the angel, right? Are you Here in Genesis 48 My God, the angel. So they knew this is God. This is God. And we have done this study also to see that when Joshua referred to that angel, he said, it's Yahweh himself. So now that they have decided to worship other gods, now he says, I will send angel. Because if you pay attention, you know that this is a different supernatural being. Send angel is exactly what happened in Genesis 11. Give them over to other hosts of heaven. And Romans 2, 8, 9. So as soon as he said that, Moses now said to him, he said, lord. He began to intercede.

Then he said about that in verse 12 see that thou sayst to me, bring up these people. And thou has not let me know whom thou will send with me. Yet you have said, I know thee by name. You said, you are going to go with us, but that's not what you are doing. And he said to them, he said in verse 15, if your presence does not go with us, don't carry us. What's the distinction? Because that first angel was his presence. Are you here? The second one is that go through that other nation. I'm going to give you over to your own what you want. He said, no, don't do that. So he says, if your President came. I'll go with you. So by most Vascen, I'll go with you. Then in chapter 34, he says, and the Lord passed by.

And he said, the Lord, even the Lord, Gracious mercy, long suffering and kindness. Verse 6. And that's what John says. Full of grace and truth. Are you following this? So, so therefore God abandons people to what they want. So in. In that same full of destiny, God, we said, there is the best of God, remember, there's what he permits. So we have seen from even how he dealt with Israel, that he gave them over to the host of heaven. It's a pattern of scripture that he gives you over. Give. Gave them up. 2Nd Thessalonians 2. And verse 11. This is what is called the wrath of God. Is that okay for this course? Look at it.

It says, and all this disabled unrighteousness in verse 10, that then appears that he receive not the love of truth, that it might be saved for this cause. He says God will send them. That's like the Old Testament, Shalak. He will send them strong delusion that they may believe a lie. Can you see it? Can you see it? And your son was natural beings. He will send them. So you allow. So that they will believe a lie. Deuteronomy, chapter 4, Verse 19. Lest that lift up your eyes to heaven. And when you see the sun and the moon and the stars, even all the hosts of heaven should be driven to worship them and serve them. The Lord thy God has divided to all the nations under the whole heaven. So where does this have appear in New Testament material?

When you read principalities, right? And powers, Is that territorial? It deals with territories and nations. And Colossians 1:15 to 17 says they were made by him, right? And for him thrones, visible, invisible. So what do we have in the nations? Don't forget when I say the nations. Here you are seated like you are ancient Israelite audience. This doesn't apply today. Like that. What did we have in the nations? We have called them angels in modern times who were given charge over other places, other nations to cause men to worship God, to direct their hearts to God. Hebrews 1:14. Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them? Who shall be what? Heirs of salvation. So the very genesis of idol worship is disobedience. And that's where we have idol worship. God gives people over to what they want to serve.

When you see anybody worshiping God outside of Jesus, outside of Yahweh, God, who is Jesus? That's who Jesus is. God has given him over. But I've got whatever this message he says, in him we live who have our being is not far from every one of us. Acts 17, he's not. And we explore much of this as we proceed. So he said Most High is a relative term. A relative term. Let's see whether you are getting in on this. You know, this is seated on high. Look at what Paul says in Ephesus. He says, far above all principalities, power, might and dominion. Is that the most high narrative? Good. So again, where is he saying it? In a genital world, all principalities, power. Mike, it says Nicolas 2 in Philippians 2. Of course, in First Corinthians, where he talks about idols a lot.

And he says this, we are seated far above. When he says far above, it is that Old Testament term of the Most High. Why can we sit amongst the host of heaven? Why can we sit there? Because by identification with humanity, God as a man sit there. And that becomes the access for all believers today. Are you here? Are you here? And this is. We are yet to scratch it. That's why Paul said in Corinthians. What are you talking about? Do you not know that the saints will judge these angels? And that judging is not just to say, okay, you are bad, you are good. No, is that you will sit above, you will exercise authority, you will exercise rulership, as it were, in the supernatural world, through to the natural world.

So the believer's authority of casting out demons to me is a foretaste of God's new worlds. Are you here? Are you here? Now let's look at something very practical. I said I was going to look at this. Look at Mark five. Okay, so I have a note here. It's a question I answered somewhere. And I said, does it not mean we have one deity over every nation? I said, no. Just like the world host of heaven, Seba, so structure. And Paul used principality, power, might and dominion. We have, as it were, over such nations. That was then so supreme deity. We now have less territorial spiritual regions. It therefore means that while we are thinking of governors and councillors and earthly rulers, that is a figure of speech, of real spiritual authority over districts and areas. Are you here? Are you following?

So that means that there's such kind of structure in different parts of the world today. If we have time now, I think we should. In Exodus 12, we saw that Egypt had that kind of structure. And the highest of them was Pharaoh himself, whom he represents. That is why in the Exodus it says, who is like unto thee? Look at Exodus 12:12. Who is like unto thee amongst the gods? Who is like thee? Exodus 12. I'll pass through the land of Egypt this night and smile all the first born land of Egypt, both man and beast. And against all the gods of Egypt, I'll execute judgment. I am the Lord, against all the gods. All the gods. So exodus 15. So there is a supernatural aspect of what went on.

Exodus 15, verse 11. Who is like unto thee, O God, amongst the gods is that most high narrative amongst the gods. Who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders. Who is like you amongst the gods. So most high narrative. Okay, so there's a great set up as a stronghold over a nation, will attract other spirits and functions through. Watch this at times the rulers, the authorities there the ruling actions, culture, habits. Ephesians 2:1:3 explains this. Ephesians 6:12 as well. So anywhere we see common, common culture, habit, portion. We said there's a being mean what you remember that? So that's what happened in Egypt. So the night of the Passover was that clash or to execute. That's why Luke 10:17, when he said they came back and said the demons are servant. I saw Satan fall like lightning.

He said, from heaven. That's most of them knighted. I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. And I was talking about casting out of demons. So casting out of demons is an exercise over territories. Look at Mark 5 commentary. I will read. Verse 7. What have I to do with thee, Jesus? Now let me pause and say this. This book was written way after the epistles were written. So if a face is retained here, it means that the New Testament audience, right, were reading the same books which we call the Old Testament. So watch this. I mean, reading from the Old Testament, I meant to say, what have I to do with thee, Jesus, son of the most high God, I adore thee, by God that thou torment me not. Okay, now pay attention to these details.

Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. He said, what is your name? My name is legion. Legion means 6000. Okay. My name is Legion. And you see, Jesus used it in Matthew 12 and verse 40. Legion of Angels. Matthew 26:53. My Father can send a legion of angels. That structure is a, an army structure. Legion is more Latin. L E G I O N L, E G U N. It's a Roman regiment. That is, it has structure. So this phrase is like saying Prince Price is for might. And. Are you following? Are you following this? Now the question is, he is one single Person. Well, let's see something. Just pay attention. You see something here. You know, this is obviously the first time that Jesus will have that kind of conversation. Now look at this. Or the only time. What's your name?

What's your name now? Name? Is it title or description? Can we not say Presence? Good Legion. That means for we've ended. So that's presence. You besought him, but they will not send him out of. Look at them. Pay attention. He besought him much that he would not send him out of where? Out of the country. So they were more about where the territory that it was about that person. Now they were near onto the mountain, the great head of the swine feeding. And all the devils besought him, saying send us out. His wine just gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out and entered the swine and they ran. And then they were choked in the sea. And were choked in the sea.

And when they had fed swine told it in the city, in the country and went out to see what was done. So there is something about the territory that we should pay attention. Now I'm going to read a research that was done about that area. Where's my arrives in it? I'll just click the excerpt for you. Now the first thing is CK Barnett, who wrote the New Testament background, that Testament background to the four gospels says that there's evidence that this place had a lot of magical worship in this period. There was a lot of magic arts in this particular period. Then they look at the narrative. There's a narrative that. Go get there. Before I read this commentary in Mark 4. Follow how Mark done that study. Also in the study book of Mark, just before this, Jesus calmed the storm.

Calming the storm is when it comes to the forces of nature is to show that he is Yahweh. So there's already a background to Mark 5 that calming the storm is not. It is a supernatural occurrence. Because one of the things we said here that one who can calm the sea is one of the names given to Yahweh. So. So by saying Jesus did this in Mark 4, Mark is pointing that this is Yahweh. As a man, I think I've skipped something. Yeah. So now let me read this place for you. Gerasa, which is the real word, is a Transjordan region. This is the background of the New Testament to the east of the Sea of Galilee. A gentile territory. That's why the Most High was used. Gentile territory, typical of the 1st century Greco Roman city. Now Jesus Crossing to this territory.

Go to Mark four. Sorry, Mark 5:1. They came over to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gadarenes. Let us. I mean, before then he said in 35, let's pass over to the other side. Now that is, let's go to the Gentile territory where other supernatural beings are worshipped. So Jesus was territorial in that speech. Now, the Gentile territory, this is again, the Old Testament, New Testament background was a precursor of the community's own Gentile mission in the region. Which means that Jesus is sending them to a Gentile area. The capital city of Gerasa is 550 miles northeast of Jerusalem. Just lies 550 meters above sea level, is a remote, broad valley just outside the borders of the Jewish community. So the emphasis of this area is known to the audience to describe why Jesus had this encounter.

Now, furthermore, the population of this place is, I mean, was by. Was very prominent. It is known to have the sanctuary of Zeus Olympios sitting on the high ground. So it's a place for heavy idol worship, communal idol worship. Scholars have also said that the worshippers of Zeus Olympias in this place were either Greek settlers or Hellenized Syrians. Mark's audience is familiar with this cult. The demons who addressed Jesus were saying, okay, you know, also had the equivalent of sons of Zeus. So when they were sons of Zeus, by calling sons of the Most High, they are relating with that Old Testament description of the comparison of Yahweh with other idols or other beings. So they knew exactly. The audience knew exactly what Mark was driving at here. Another being worshipped here is called Artemis.

Artmis, a Greek goddess of nature, was equally worshipped in this place. The temple of Artemis is arguably one of the largest or if not the largest in this area and is the high point of much of worship and activity. So much activity in this place was situated around the worship of Artemis. So this, there was an imperial cause in this particular territory. And this is the reason why when, okay, there's one more. The use of tombs here was used for cultic worship. So that fellow in the tomb, you know, it was way beyond just somebody just set it to the cemetery, beat on cemetery or something. It's not the same in that immediate context. What you have there is worship, territorial worship. So, Mark 5, are you here? So that says send us. Do not send us out of the city.

So this was like taking over a territory. We said the gospel is about people, also about what territories, places. This is why when they came back and they saw the guy verse 15 in his right mind. They were afraid. And then they began to pray into the power of their coast. Look at 17. They now said Jesus should leave their area. Why? Those who are in Acts 16, to exchange, they cast out a demon out of the girl who was there. And they immediately said, chase him out of the place. Which means it had to do with the territory. With the territory. And you see, when they say legion, that's the first. That means that particular girl, or call you damself, she carried maybe the cu. Because that's where everybody's concerned. Now, what have you noticed? Sometimes you cast out a demon, just upset.

Has that happened to you before? You never seen that before. You've never seen it before. I said, mike, this guy, or maybe somebody who is, you know, mentally infirm and you cast out a demon and people are just upset. Remember when one of these WCs we had and one of brethren cast out a demon from an insane guy and they had to go and meet the oba of the place. We are sorry for what say no. What's your business? That particular being had the people in hostage. You can't preach the gospel using drama. I said, I mean, that's another host. Yeah, just. Just playing. You think it's about speech? No, it's not. So now they actually changed Jesus out of the place. He said, no, no, you have to leave. And when he was coming to the ship, they.

That the guy was good at 19. Go home to your friends. The guy was the following, said, go home to your friends and tell them right the outer things the Lord had done for thee and had compassion on you. So Mark is pointing to Jesus here as God. He departed and began to publish on Decapolis. How great things Jesus. Are you saying it? The Lord Jesus had done for him and all men did marvel. So most high here deals with the territory. Wasn't just a simple display of casting out one demon and all that. It was the territory itself. So by the use of principality, power, might and dominion by Paul, this concept and narrative is retained by New Testament writers. The world is supernatural. Where we are is supernatural.

We want to enter a cab now and say, let me see the spirit behind this. We're not dealing with that superstition, you know, but that our engagements in this world definitely is supernatural. The weapons of our warfare are not canal second Corinthians 10:3,4 mighty struggle to put our strongholds. Ephesians 6. Taking on the whole armor of God they will withstand the devil in the evil day. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, verse 12. But against precious power might ruler the darkness of this world or this present age. Very clear. So when we are preaching the gospel, we are dealing with territories, we are dealing with people. We're dealing with a host of darkness. That should be clear in our minds. Is that clear? Is that okay? It becomes very strange when the church starts to borrow from the world.

Satan can't cast out Satan, you know, it has to be the weapons of our warfare, which is of the world. So the core of this is that the New Testament. So the New Testament retained the word most high. The use of far above is the most high narrative. Far above. The ancient Israelites will say above other gods. The New Testament audience principalities, power, right might and dominion. So we are meant to exercise our authorities above this all the time. I will say this again then. Firstly, I will take a short. Do not think that we are talking about things in your village. No, we already identified this. That where you have something common. Rebellion can be a common attitude. Because eventually you discover that these supernatural beings actually breed the culture of people. Culture.

Since you have used your used to a habit, a belief system, philosophies, and they are behind it. I'm of view that within we need to start take out. Let me put like this. The use of ethnos, which is nations is no longer just about language. In fact, for many of us here, you can't even speak your native language. If I look at pronunciation is what's the name? Olusegun. So that language has no power over you. So it's now which language do you really speak? What, what. What kind of thinking pattern really? And that. That. That would be informed. That will inform what we are saying now. So you know the use of ethnos. Matthew 28:19 make disciples of all nations. You have ethnos. Then you have Mark 16 going to all the world which is inhabited space.

Why is the gospel particular about all the world and every creature, every ethnos. Which means that we must think territories. Okay? And think. So we said that the concept of culture. Culture is very dynamic. Culture has language habits for some of us. For example, if you are. If you are Igbo and you found yourself living in Kano, it's very likely that you will have imbibed things you are doing there. If I go to your hometown and they almost knock you down, that's not how to do it. You're. Because it's about influence. Culture is not in your DNA. You acquire it by influence, by learning, by association. Okay, so I've Been saying that. Which means that culture really is of influence, more of influence.

The reason why we pick the culture of our parents is because at the initial stage of our lives, those are who we live with. So it's something that you acquire over time. Now, having said that, it means that if the Gospel wants us to affect culture, ethnos, they have the word iron majorly cosmos really. And you are going to every creature. It means that we are retaining that Old Testament context of sacred areas, places, territories. So when in Mark 5 saw it now that when that demon was not one single person. So we can say that what Jesus approached was hosts, right? Am I correct? And notice that conversation that he had with that what is your name? You know, look at that Mark five again, let's say it. What is called of the man? What is your name? This is the first time.

But if you go to the Old Testament, which we are going to see in a moment, it's that conversation that Yahweh has with the host of heaven, that conversion can only take place between sons of God and the Most High. Now, some will call it, I mean, ancient theologians call it the Divine Council theory, which is. They believe that there is a. The Divine Council theory is taken from what you can call, you know, ancient, denser culture. It's not like supposed to be sustained theology. It's just a cultural thing, which is ancient fact in religions. There's usually a structure, somebody who is above. So you have that conversation. So what is your name? That Job one? Have you seen my servant Job? That's a conversation in the heavenlies. So this conversation that Jesus has here confirms further that this is Yahweh.

That conversation confirmed it. So it's about territories. This is why Jesus came to Jerusalem. And he says, Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, unto the uttermost parts of the earth, because the promised land theology is start from here and reach the world. So the background therefore of the Old Testament, theologically speaking, is retained here. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/