The Lord gives them light, and they shall reign forever and ever. So see, to the New Testament writer is the sea of the Old Testament writer. And the sea is not meteorology or. No, no. Nothing of that nature. It's supernatural. So Psalm 24, learning something, huh? All right, so when you hear the waters covers the sea, what waters covers the sea as the waters cover the sea. Where you cover something is dominion, right? As the waters cover the sea. We're sort of glory of God. We left it up the last time. I'm going to pick it up again. As the waters cover the Psalm 24. See, not of many I'm looking for. All right, I've seen it. Psalm 24. He says, the earth is the Lord's land. Okay? And the fullness thereof, that's eret, is the Lord's.

And the fullness mali m b l e. First time you found fullness in Genesis. Not the first time. Genesis 1:28. Fill the earth, the world, and that is the world. So it makes that distinction. The world. One second. The world which is inhabitants, that's the Tabel, and they that dwell therein. So when it says he founded it upon the seas, is this Old Testament author looking at nature or is talking about dominion? Huh? So upon the seas is authority, and establish it upon the floods. Is that clear? Aha. That is dominion and kingdom. It's not referring to nature at all. You know one of the names of God, Jesus in the Old Testament, King of the flood, remember? So the earth is the Lord's, and the fullness thereof is. Is a confrontation to the powers of darkness, to idols.

That's why Paul said in 1 Corinthians 10, the earth is the laws and the fullness thereof. That is the place. This earth is God's worship place. And it says, for he found upon the seas, it stands upon the floods. So the earth and the fullness thereof, Genesis 1:26 28 is repeated here by this author David. Upon the seas, that's upon chaos, right? And upon the floods. So put these words in the same bracket. Let me see how I put it here. Yeah, okay. I said one second. Okay. So land is God's rest place. So is that salvation, redemption, good, the world, what is being done there? And those that dwell in. He found it upon the seas. Now notice that we saw this in Noah's time. Where did we find the ark? Let's look at it.

And again, what did we see the ark as? Huh? Thank you. Genesis8, Genesis 7. Sorry, verse 18. The waters prevailed and were increased greatly upon the earth. And the ark went upon the face of the waters. You know, I told you earlier that the prophecies of the scriptures are seen in the stories. Now what David is saying here, did it happen also at the Exodus? Huh? Was there, Were they upon the seas? Yeah. Did we see it in Genesis? Yes. Do we see it in Noah? Yes. So it says, watch the ark went upon the face of the waters. Genesis 8, 4. The ark rested, and he uses the word rested, a rest place on the seventh month, the seventh day of the month upon the mount of a. So the say one more.

So the ark, which is the temple of God, showed dominion over chaos, this place of worship over chaos. Don't forget that what led to the flood was what the sons of God, right. Came into daughters of men, right? Huh. So which is, there's something supernatural in that context. But we see the ark exercising dominion. You can put it somewhere seated on high. All right, on high, above chaos. You know, we said in this series that God didn't deal with the chaos at once, remember? Why did he do that? Well, thinking that he also gave us his life, that he gave man that dominion because man, right, is in his image. So go do it. So what we are seeing today, right, when it comes to million over the course of darkness, is how far man has gone. I like what Hanyon said.

He said man has gone to this space, man has gone to the moon. That, I mean it shows how far said now we are going to see supernatural men, God, Superman. And I believe that. And I think one of the things that held us back is that, I mean when we say there's no more sea, like there's no more Old Testament, there's no more power of God, let's just focus on the written word. And the written word points you back to the power of God. Say, well, the power of God now is just in the message. As though they didn't have the message in the Old Testament. So go back to Psalm 24, learning something. Upon the seas. So put it together. Land, world, fullness. Well, you're going to see why Jesus used water. Are you here, born of waters of Eden, huh? Okay.

Born of water. And that's Genesis. Echo. Look at three. Who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? Ascend to now, where did man first ascend? Genesis 2. Right. So is this Eden? Huh? Come on now. So come back a bit. The earth is the Lord's. The fullness thereof. Is that Eden, Huh? Is that hidden? A fire upon the seas, a savage upon the floods, Is that hidden? Yes, that's the garden of God. Genesis 2. So he says, who shall ascend to the hill of the Lord? Where is the first mountain in Scripture? Garden of Eden. Right? And ascend to his holy place. Is that Eden. Good. He that cleans hands, a pure heart, not delivered soul in vanity and sworn deceitfully. He shall receive the blessing from The Lord. Genesis 1. Okay. And my.

And righteousness from the God of his salvation. This generation has seen them him. Sorry. And seek thy face. O Jacob, say, lift up your heads, O ye this. And the King of glory. We're going to look at that. The king of glory shall come in. Shall come in. Now, if we get this. If we get this one. The King of Rasha come in all. The Jesus is coming thing will just clear in our heads totally. The King of glory will come in. Why? What is the glory? The glory is one. The earth is the Lord's, the fullness thereof. When this happens, then we see the King of glory shall come in. Who is this king of glory? The Lord strong and mighty. And Lord mighty in battle. And the King of glory shall come Him.

This is the everlasting reign of Christ in the earth. Who is this king of glory? The Lord of hosts is the King of glory. So the church. We are also his holy place, his rest place. Right? And we are founded upon the floods, established upon the floods, founded upon the seas. Upon the seas. And what is flowing in the church is not seas. It's the waters of Eden, which is the work of the Holy Spirit. So in John 3, when Jesus was saying, except a man is born of water, then he says, the Spirit echoes of Eden. Why? Because in Genesis 1:2, the spirit of God moved upon the face of the Waters, chaos. And does that chaos also evoke people? Huh? Talk to me. Good. By Genesis 2, the waters that were flowing were waters of life.

So when Jesus said, born of water, which is. And then talks about Life, that's Genesis 1 and 2. So being born of water is deliverance from the power of darkness, Right? Okay, good. Which is also been taken out of chaos into God's marvelous light. So the Old Testament writer uses water in that order. The waters in the land, the waters in God's salvation, born of that water where you are found in his temple, you are found in his house. It's not physical baptism, even though baptism was now used because. Look at the baptism. Let's follow this. Very well. This makes sense. The baptism that happened in Exodus was the same waters they conquered was called. Was their exodus and deliverance. That was how they became a new nation. The same way, you know, Jesus was baptized in water.

And the same waters of Jordan, showing newness, new creation. So God took us out of chaos into his marvelous life, new creation. Israel came out of the Red Sea, the borders of Egypt and crossed. And, you know, same thing, they went through Jordan, same thing, borders of Canaan. So you have born of water, which is the spirit. Means that we are taken out of chaos. We are washed by God's spirit. So you find the Old Testament writers. Look at Isaiah 44. So I will pour out my spirit. That's water language, right? Joel 2:28. I'll pour out of my spirit. Isaiah 44. And verse 3. I will pour out. Watch, this is great. I will pour water upon him that is thirsty and floods upon the dry ground. I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring.

I will pour water. Look at Ezekiel 36. So these are the waters of Eden, right? Very well. So when we hear, as the waters cover the sea, is that hidden are those waters in the land. So the waters that cleanse, the waters that save are in the land. The chaos are under it, Right? Are you following this? So look at Ezekiel 36 quickly. And 25. I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean. Why clean water? Clean water is hidden chaos, right? Genesis 1. From all your feelings, from all your idols, I will cleanse you. Ezekiel39, 29. I have poured out my spirit upon the house of Israel. Lord God. He said, water, he says, my spirit. So where do we have the water of the spirit? Genesis 1:2. The spirit moved upon the face of the waters.

And God said, let there be light. Then look at Joel 2 I'll pour out my spirit upon all flesh. The scripture, I've not read it. He had put my spirit upon all flesh. Notice that upon all flesh my sons and daughters shall prophesy. Your young men shall see visions. Your old men shall dreams. So, being born of the spirit, born of water, and Jesus uses So well, John 3, John 4, the rivers of living water, those are echoes from Genesis, directly living. Why does it separate it? Because we know in Genesis we have waters of chaos, right? And living water. So when he says, as the waters covers the sea, the waters there depict Eden as God's house. So when the water covers the whole sea, there will be no more. Is that clear?

And that is the fulfillment of Psalm 24 and verse 1. Again, it's within the concept of worship. So when Paul, First Corinthians 10 explains this text, what he's dealing with here in 1 Corinthians 10, sorry again, because idol worship. Then he says in verse 26, for the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. That is, there's nowhere in the earth that belongs to any idol. It belongs to God. It's his rest place. So the earth is the laws of the fullness thereof. It's his place of worship. If you read first Corinthians very well, from the very first chapter to the very last, he was talking really about worship, the temple, the use of gifts, food, worship, fellowship. If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast and be devoted to God, say, go, eat, asking no question for conscience sake.

If any man say unto you, this is offered in sacrifice to idols, eat not for his sake that showed it, and for conscience. But the earth is Lord. And for he said, look, you know, the ex is the Lord and the fullness thereof. There is no food that belongs to any idol. You know that. Because this earth space is his dwelling place, then he says, consequently, I say, not your own, but for the other. Why is my conscience judged by no man's conscience? He said, for you, by grace particularly am I evil spoken of, for which I'll give thanks. Whether therefore you eat or drink, whatever you do. Huh? That temple language due to the. Is that due to raising your hand and worshiping God to the glory of God, giving no offense? Because in this temple, are we stewards. We are priests.