And it says that in verse nine, when they have spoken these things, Jesus has been giving them the great commission. While they behold was taken up, up. And the cloud was sitting out of their sight as it looks very far toward heaven. As it went up, behold two men stood by them in white apparel. So is this a vision? Huh? So you think we are looking at it and saying, verse nine, there's not two supernatural beings. Why are you gazing up into heaven? Same Jesus which was taken up from being heaven, shall come in like manner as you have seen him go into heaven. Acts of the apostles, chapter 2 verse 33, being therefore. Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, have received from the Father of the Holy Ghost. He accepted this which you now see and hear.

David is not ascended to heavens, but he said to himself, the Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand. So you have ascended. So the ascension language goes on and on. Now again, it's an Old Testament phrase that we all must also understand. Let's get back to that. Jerusalem 32 were there earlier. 32 In church. So it's clear that where Satan took Jesus to was supernatural. Right? The high mountains. Right. Okay, 20, 32 and verse eight. When the most High divided to the nations. The Most High divided to the nations where the Most high. So you have the word High, where the Most High divided to the nations. When he separated the sons of Adam and set the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. That's King James, but I read to us many versions.

The new living translation says, boundaries of the people according to the number in his heavenly court. In his heavenly court. This is already in this series. I'm just repeating it. English Standard Version According to the number of the sons of God. The World Standard Bible According to the number of the sons of God they have. The Septuagint translation of Brenton's seventh translation says, number of the angels of God. Contemporary English Version says, he assigned a guardian angel to each of the nations. A guardian angel. Good News Translation says he assigned to each nation a heavenly being. Good News Translation Majority Standard Bible says he set the boundaries of the people according to the number of the sons of God. The new American Bible says it sets up the boundaries of the people after the number of the divine beings.

The next Bible, a very reliable Bible, actually says, according to the number of the heavenly assembly. The New Revised Standard Version. Please pay attention to this one. He said he fixed the boundaries of the people according to the number of the gods. The gods. The new heart in this Bible says, according to the number of the children of God. The children of God. So no doubt translations have found out that this has to be. Now, there's no argument that this is Genesis 11. Okay? So Genesis 11 shows us why we have principalities and powers, why we have supernatural beings in the nations of the earth. Now, some have argued that sons of God is what God assigned the nation of Israel. It's very porous, but it's something to think about. But in Acts 17, Paul speaking in Athens. I'm just doing a reminder for.

We've done this Already remember the Corinthians? They were worshipping the unknown God. Okay. Then Paul says in 24, God had made the world and all things therein. Wherein is the Lord of heaven and earth dwells not in temples made with hands, neither is he worshipped with men's hands, as though he needs anything. Seeing verse 25. He gives to all life and birth and all things. Look at 26. He named of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on the face, on all the face of the earth. And I determine the times appointed before and the bounds of their habitation. So Paul says he had put boundaries. Again, that's Deuteronomy 32, verse 8. So I put boundaries in the nations of the earth. Number 23, verse 9. From the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him.

Lo, they which shall dwell alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations. So you see Israel alone, not like all the nations. So Israel is a servant nation. The other nations, he abandoned them to their practices, then chose Israel to bless the nations back into his plans and purposes. Jeremiah 33:28. Israel then shall dwell in safety alone. The Father Jacob, in the land of corn and wine, and his heavens shall dwell alone. Psalm 74 and 17. Thou hast set all the borders of the earth. Thou hast made summer and winter, Thou has set the boundaries. Better still. Micah 2 and verse 4, 5, Micah 2 and verse 5. You have no one in the assembly of the Lord to divide the land by laws, so he divides the land by an inheritance. Micah 2 and verse 5.

That's how long that shall be cast a cord by a lot in the congregation of the Lord. That congregation is a supernatural world. So let's investigate this phrase and I'll tell you why we have to look at the word high. Look at Mark. Mark, chapter two and then chapter five. That chapter five. We'll look at it better next week. Mark. Chapter one first. Now, Mark puts the first miracle of Jesus as casting out demons. And in 23 mark 1. And there was in the synagogue the man with an unclean spirit. And he cried, let us alone. What have to do with thee? Jesus of Nazareth, Thou have come to destroy us. I know who you are, the Holy One of God. I know who you are, the Holy One of God. So hold your peace and come out the Mark five. All right.

Verse 1. And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the gardenings. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs in man with all his language is flying fool who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no man could bind him, no knock with chains, because they had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broke into pieces. No one killed him. And night and day he was in the mountains. Now, notice all this was mountains, tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. And when he saw Jesus was quiet, he ran and washed it. Really, what he ran and worshipped is not like you were holding his hands. Actually means he fell. That's what he did.

He fell down. Boom. Then he cried a loud voice, what have I to do with thee, Jesus, son of the Most High? So when he was Most High, then he asked him, what is your name? And we are going to look at why this conversion took place. We doesn't. You don't find this kind of narrative again, you know, and there's a reason. So what is your name? Now when we say name, how was your name? That's not what he saying here. Trying to see that towards the end of this session, what is your name? Say Legion. Some people are now asking, where's your name? Okay, it's fine, but the point is, look at the word most high. Most high. And this is the reason why Mark gives us a description of where this particular person was found.

That description has to do with what happened, what was in that area. I mean, if somebody could not be tamed, it can't be that they couldn't hold him. Naturally, there's a language there that you cannot miss. So he says that by using most high goes back to those and right, very well. He situates it into, you know, God given over the nations to these supernatural beings. So where is this territory? Because we know, for example, that the territory where Israel is right, is separated from the other nations. So how come is this a territory, Is this a Jewish territory or Gentile territory? Where he could say, well, I've become. What do you want? What I need to do? Just hair. This is not like. This is not. This is not. Well, this is.

This one was given to us, you know, and just cast out the demon. We see why casting out of demon is more than people. Demons leaving people alone. So what are we going to do here? And remember very well that we looked at the Naaman story, where Naaman took the doors. Remember the land where Elisha was. When I go back to where I am, I'll no longer worship any other God but Yahweh. Which means that the Use of the land was also important. The land, as I said, the land is his rest place. All those things show you a supernatural context to even land. What have you come to do here? So he uses Most High. Now you notice that the concept of Most High is very peculiar. Let's go to Matthew 26.

There are two reasons why you can say that Jesus was crucified. One of them. Was not substantiated because eventually they found out that this was just was really the scope was too bad. Matthew 26. They tried to say that he threatened to bring down the temple. So they said to him, and look at 59. Now the chief priests and the elders and all the council sought false witness against Jesus to put him to there and found none. Though many false messes came. So you can see false fake news in a while. Say I was there. Everybody was lying. They said they had many people who said I. Why you see people, you know, there was something that somebody did one day. But the guy, what he did that day eventually wasn't right. But he pointed something out.

We were in a meeting regard, we tried to resolve an issue. So in that place we now had the majority of people accusing someone say he did it. So he said something. And the guy who was not my friend will read now he said that from my experience said the fact that we have a lot of people agreeing on something does not mean they are telling the truth. And that's just the truth. So it does not mean they are telling the truth. He said many times, you will take a wire for us to know what the truth is. At the guy, let me find out. So here they have brought witnesses and they found none. Yea, though many falsehoods came, yet found him none. At the last came two witnesses.

And they said, this fellow said, I'm able to destroy the temple and to do it in three days. And the high priest arose and said to him, answer thou nothing. What is witness against thee? Jesus heard his peace and he asked, I adjure you by the living word, tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. Now Jesus said to him, watch this. He said, thou hast said. Nevertheless, I say unto thee, hereafter you shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Now this is why they eventually said, this is blasphemy. Get this guy, he has to die because of what he just said here. What is it? Coming in the clouds of heaven. This is most high language, right? Coming in the cloud of Heaven is Most High language.

There's one other text I wanted to read. One second. Okay. New parent 169 sit on the right hand of the power of God. 2169 Says, the right hand of the power of God. Mark 14. That's where I was going. Mark 14. 61. Are you Christ, the Son of the Blessed? I am. You shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right of the power coming in the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest rent his clothes and say what? Because he saw a human being and said, how clouds of heaven. Now pay attention here. A human being as coming with the clouds of heaven. Because this is the Most High language. So when that demon said, what have you come to do as son of the Most High? Most High is an Old Testament phrase. An Old Testament phrase. Let's see.