Where there's no faith, there can't be revelation and they can't be fake without knowledge. So you have to be. They have to work together. So the concept of knowing the Old Testament in its world and its language is very important. Let me pause and say something. I said this in a series in Leviticus, which I intend to get back to again. There was something I didn't talk about at all. And I wondered why. Maybe now. Maybe I have better lights now. Anyway, I did talk about, but I didn't go into it and that is the use of the blood. And the people in Leviticus were not assuming that God was teaching them about a sacrifice that will be made for their sins in Jesus. No, we always have the feeling that people in the Old Testament were just hearing about Jesus.

They were waiting and waiting. And the devil knew about it. Angels knew about it, everybody. So when Jesus went, they did not know. All of a sudden they did not know about it. Again, no. Let's look at the idea of food, which I think in our next teaching, our next my book of Bible stories, it should be emphasized the idea of food. And I'll show you two things. First Timothy 4, Paul rebuked those who spoke about food. Verse three. Now he calls it verse one, doctrine of devils seducing spirits. And it says in verse three, and interestingly, there's nothing here about clothes. This is pretty said. It's not about clothes.

It says in verse two, speaking lies and hypocrisies, having their conscience here with the hot iron, forbidden to marry and to abstain from meat which God had created to be received with thanksgiving of them that believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good and nothing to be refused if it's received by with thanksgiving, for it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. So Paul is saying the concept of meat. Now in Romans 14, he did deal with that when he spoke to Romans 14. One him that is weak in faith. The faith receive you not without interpretations. For one believe that we eat all things, another who is weak eat herbs. So the concept of food comes here. If you read First Corinthians 8 and 10, 2, food offered to idols. So let's make that connection.

In First Corinthians 8 and 10, it talks about food offered to idols. So put that in a bracket because we're going to open it up a little bit. Food offered to idols. Then you are thinking, how does this connect with the Old Testament? So Paul is saying, every food must be received with Thanksgiving. First Corinthians. I mean, first Timothy 4, 3, 4, 5, Paul is saying in Romans 14, if somebody believes that the food, by refusing some meat is glorified as a living. If it's faith, okay, that makes two. In First Corinthians 8, it talks about, you know, if eating meat can make my brother sin, I'd rather eat meat. I will not eat meat, you know, in all the world. First Corinthians 8 where he talks about towards exhaust. One God, one father, and all.

1 Corinthians 10, he says, so that for your brother's conscience. No, no, first conscience is about your brother. First correspondence 10 is about the non believing. But it's about food. It's about food. Now Matthew 15, These are our washing hands. Then. In 10 he says here and understand, not that which goes into the mouth defiles a man, but that which comes out of the mouth, this defiles a man. Then verse 17. Sorry, don't you understand that whatever enters into the mouth goes into the belly and is cast into the drought? But those things pay attention. Which proceeds out of the mouth, comes forth from the heart, and they defile the man. For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witnesses, blasphemies, these are the things which defile the man. But to eat with unwashing hands, defile not a man.

Now the truth is Jesus saying here that the Old Testament laws are forbid food? They are abrogated. No, they are not. Just wait. When he addressed this, look at verse three. He says, why do you transgress the commandment of God? By your tradition, that is by your tradition. Then look at six. You have made the commandment of God of non effect by your traditions. Verse 9. But in vain they do worship me teaching for doctrines the commandments of men. Now, whenever he says things like this, it's the interpretation that he's questioning. What is what we call the diadoche, the interpretation, it is no way a negation of the instructions given in the Old Testament. I've told you before that what is called Old Testament is the language and cultural context of the statements made, not theology behind it. Hope that's clear.

Hope that's clear now. So which means that it calls it command. It separates the traditions of men, doctrines of men from the commandments of God. Now we've said this over the years that God used, not just the moment you use language, you have used what culture. So which means that God used culture and language. Because worship is embedded in culture too, and culture in worship. So one of the things that God also uses in the Old Testament context is the religion of the people. Now, now, and that tells us a bit about evangelism, that he accommodates their culture and even their religious thinking to persuade them in faith. So you might have to cross that barrier and very quickly. So, so look at the concept of eating food. Now. So while going, Sister and I just pay attention.

Now you will see different instructions in Leviticus about food. You will see crayfish, snail, you see different instructions. Now I said to us, and don't forget that it was for the land. Now if it's for the land. The connection is they were going to call Canaan the world. And he's talking about where they are going to. And look at Leviticus 20 so we'll see the context. Leviticus 20. Remember when I talk about tattoo, remember when I said that, you know, if in an age, this is what it represents, that's where the believer has to take his stand. This is what it represents. There are different things tattoos were used for over the time, over time. I said, now what is it? What does it represent? I was talking to a guy and I said to him or something he did.

He put on and I said, well, that there's nothing. This is just fashion. I said, but are you looking at the mindset of people? He now said, does it matter that what matters to him is his own worship of God? Said, no, your holiness to God, right Does not permit what you just said. It doesn't. And that was the context of the instructions given to Israel as were going to Canaan. Why wasn't that said to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? It wasn't even said to them when they were in Egypt. It was about where they were going to. That's the food. Now, unfortunately, some people have come up with different theories around this. Oh, that God talks about diet. So I asked somebody years back, I said, which of them did you see? The author say, if you eat crayfish, you have malaria.

I said, there was no disease attached to them, so they could have been that. Now, today, when your doctor is giving you advice, you say, too much of this one will cause this one that you have to take this one. And they'll give you dietary advice. Some of us break it as we break it very easily. And we say, I'll start tomorrow. You know, don't take this one, don't take that one, don't take this. Don't take. There was I also my doctor said, salt, that you mustn't take salt. Too much salt, too much pepper. I said, okay. But only I was very hungry. I tasted the salt. I just said, this thing is salty. And I was eating it. Next time you are hungry. Now power goes working. So the thing is this.

There was no instruction in scripture about food that now says, if you eat it, this will happen to your body. No, that shows you they were not dietary lost. Is that clear? Because it's only a doctor that can give that kind of law. I say, you know, and Moses, for what I know now, is not a doctor. Was not a doctor. Somebody that calls him and said, well, he saw it in lasso. Leviticus 20 and 24. I've said to you shall inherit their land and I will give to you to possess it a land that flows with milk and honey and blood of God that has separated you from the other people. He has separated you. So it's about the separation. He has separated you. I'll read it from the Septuagint for you. That separation that takes you to the Foundation. Genesis 1. Right.

The Badal. Very well. So he has separated you. And where they were going to was. Notice that much of the commentaries about Canaan and Canaanites was idol worship and food. Food was one of the things used for worship. Listen. Now pause at this point. I was going to say this, but let's just say it now. Why do you think that to the ancient Israelites they understood eating or not eating the food? Because eating was worship. That was why the issue of the. So it's not about. They're not particular whether it was mango or papo. No, no. It was eating food. And the concept there is about worship or faith or believing. So when he said to them that you are separate. Okay, Leviticus 20, just read verse 24. I have am the Lord your God who separated you from all the nations.

From all the nations. Now 25. And you shall separate them between the clean livestock and between the unclean livestock, between the clean birds and the unclean. You will not abominate yourselves by livestock or by birds or by any of the creeping animals of the land which I myself have satisfied for you through uncanniness. You will be a holy people to me because I myself am holy, the Lord your God, who has separated you from all the peoples to be mine. Are you following this? So the food instructions were not diet, it's doctrine. Now pay attention. Please pause a bit. If you now bring that cultural context and ask us to apply it today, that's an error. Are you here because that's Old Testament? That's the one. That is not meant to go beyond the context of that culture of the world.

But is there still an instruction to avoid worldliness? Yes. Do you get it now? Aha. So it is not the food. Of course, this is not to tell your doctor that it's not the food. Paul told Timothy, he said, take no longer water only for your often infirmities. You know, take no water. But you know, talk about wine. People have been arguing what kind of wine. See, do you know how many years ago he said that? This is 2023, you know, I'm not Going to be asking. Paul was not a doctor. He's a personal letter. He didn't even know you were going to read it. If you knew you were going to read a glossary of what the wine I refer to is. He wasn't what he was talking about. I'm sure he had given him before.

You were not arguing what kind of wine is it? Is it alcoholic wine? Is it what? Shady alcohol? Because I don't know. Something he didn't say to you. Okay. Someone said, well, how do I apply it? I said apply bring department. Apply it now. Department. I left with you. I've let this increase. Yeah. Go and look for the cloak. That's not to you. Are you following what I'm saying here you now sit down. Say. I mean, you have a disciple now comes to your house and his sister Laga. I say, no, this is. It's not what goes into a man that defiles him. There was no preacher that was arguing. He explained it very well. He took time to explain that. Look alcohol and he went. So people asked about cigar. He said same thing. So he will do his own cigar.