Father, in the name of your Son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for another time to advance in our study and learning. In your word and at your word. We ask this morning that you flood our understanding with yours. All questions are answered, all doubts dissolved, and everything that looks like a myth or a mystery in our minds unraveled by the power of the Holy Spirit together as a church of Jesus Christ, your Son, even as he sees us in him. This thought is glorified as we're edified and built up by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside the body of Christ and those who hear us. Amen. Let's have a seat. Second Timothy, chapter three and 15. Did I say 15 again? 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction and righteousness.

Now remember I did mention that because Scripture says the Old Testament books that the prophecies about Jesus are much more. The prophecies of the Old Testament about Jesus are much more in patterns than in the Doth say at the Lord moment. Remember that in John 5:45. Let's start from 39. He says, Search the Scriptures for the day you think you have eternal life, that they will testify of me. You will not come to me, they will have life. What is it that they will testify of me is not really in the prophecies, as it were. It's more in the part. I'm going to try to explain something. Maybe we'll go on Sunday service.

How that, you know, if we just backtracked a bit in the Matthew 24 narrative of the prophecies of Jesus or the things just said about the eternal end of the world, just backtracked a bit and read the same things on the lips of the prophets of the Old Testament. And they came to pass. So which means that we can pick the patterns. They came to pass right then even before the certain things that he said in Matthew 24 that came to pass that had been prophesied before, and they came to pass before he came, and they also came to pass after, which is there are prophecies that are picked also in patterns, you know. So I mean, so that further, should I say, buttresses the fact that we must read backwards to understand Bible doctrine.

We must read backwards so it says the given expression of God's pointing for doctrine, reproof, correction to the righteousness. And we said that. Which means that what Paul is writing is from the Scriptures. The context of his letters will be the Old Testament book. So our question has been, does the New Testament retain the context of the Old, the grammar stuff, because it's transliterated or translated from the Hebrew to the Greek. The culture. No, the culture is Old Testament. It will pass away just like God circumcises. But he doesn't use the foreskin of the male. But the first king of the male was used in the Old Testament books as Old Testament. But circumcision is of the heart. And it didn't start with New Testament books because in Jeremiah chapter 30, verse 5. Let me just see that.

You will see that circumcision also mentioned Jeremiah 13 and verse 5 and 6 will circumcise your heart. So circumcision cultural pass away. Circumcision doctrine eternal, you know. So those are the Old and New Testament explanations. It's not, it's not in the books. It's in the words. It's in the context of what was being said or let's say the messenger. I would like to put it like this. I may change it also that the Old Testament part of the Old Testament. Oh, come on. The Old Testament part of the Old Testament books is the messenger of the message, which means the cultural context that was used. But the message remains the same. So we said therefore that. Do we? What then does it retain? It retains theology.

The theology will not change such that the instructions in the New Testament books by the authors of the epistles are taken directly from the lips or the writings of the Old Testament authors. So the instructions don't change. I reiterate some things like I said at the World Changers Conference, the notes I gave us. So we said that the use of the term New Testament is found and rested on the very text of the Old Testament books. Jeremiah 31 from 31 to 34. Paul definitely used Exodus and Jeremiah in Second Corinthians chapter 3 when he was talking about the New Testament. Which means the books can't be Old Testament. If the understanding of the New Testament is found in the Jewish Scriptures. We're going to. If I'm going to change the meaning today, I might not be exactly precise.

And I'm going to rename the Old Testament. I'll just call it Hebrew Scriptures. What I'm going to. The distinction for me will be language and culture, the Hebrew Scriptures and then the New Testament will be Greek Scriptures of God's Word. Is that clear? The Hebrew Scriptures of God's Word. The Hebrew writings of God's Word, then the Greek writings of God Word. So I would rather see them as translations primarily and translations rather than alterations. I mean, this is just me, you know, in the way I would look at them. So this calls for critical review. The grouping of Old and New Testament would be needless if this dichotomy did not exist. So therefore, the grammatical context is what might change. Because in this instance we'll be interpreting through the eyes of another culture.

Therefore, let me just say this quickly and move, you know, I've taught you this far, just going over those notes, the inability. I said what's most critical here. The inability to fixate our Christology beyond a fulfillment of prophecies of the Hebrew Scriptures and the Old Testament or very weakly as types and shadows gives us many problems. Which means that when we start talking about Jesus as just a promise from the Old Testament, we're going to have a lot of problems. And the New Testament is validated by the Old Testament. And we begin to have problems like who is Jesus? Do you prefer God to Jesus or Jesus to God? And all those queries come up again because we don't know which context goes away. So I'll say it like this, that we must therefore read the Old Testament like the early church read it.

And they read it as their only, pardon my bad grammar, their only God's word. That's how they read it, as their only God's word. They didn't read it like there was something else they should read. That was all that they read. So that's why we came up with the concept of identification unifiers, which we have not even scratched the surface yet. We are looking at. We are still studying identical unifiers from the Old and New Testament. We are yet to look at it in our world today. And I believe in this series we might just move a bit further that. Okay, how do I. Something happened, something was during 2000 years ago. How is it God's word to me today? When the language has changed, the culture has changed, just like the Old Testament books. How does it apply?

So look at the unifiers in our world. So we said that the supernatural worldview of the Old Testament authors was written by the New Testament authors, which means that worldview does not change. Look at the concept of the tithe. The tithe is a Chaldean culture, which. And it's not just a Chaldean culture. Anyway, if you come to Africa, I know something in native custom of many African cultures, particularly Nigeria, where if you. When. I mean, the first time you work. I remember my dad said this one and I was looking at him, he said, when did you collect your first salary? I said, well, I told him then I think it was not necessary salary. Then he said, oh, where do you make your first money?

Because naturally, if you make money, you take the first thing you make, you give it to your parents. Who knows that culture? Did you do it? You know it. Just know it. Sense knowledge. Did you apply it? You take the money. You know, some of us will have removed money for many things. Your iPhone, your. They take the. You want to make heaven. So you know, that's our culture. It's not because they read the Bible, it's just that you use it to honor, you know, and, you know, honor people. So you have the 10% too. It's a Chaldean culture. So pay attention here. The New Testament author does not tell you to pay tithes. Oh, no, he doesn't say that. Because if he does that, then a lot of other things will fall in. But that's why we said that.

What is the lesson there? What's the message? I remember something that Ren Chris Okote said years ago, and it really got me thinking. I was somewhere in the middle 90s. He said that in every parable. He said there's fiction faction and the lesson that there's a fiction part, which is mean a story, not necessarily a lie, but it's just facts put up together to present the story. There's a faction which means that you can relate with what is being said. So but you should not be particular about the fiction and fact. Look at what is the message there, you know, and so the lesson of the tithe is that you honor people in authority over your life. You honor, you show honor and respect to the poor, to the strangers, to the widows, and to those who serve. So that's the lesson.

So the New Testament author will not say pay 10% or etc. But the new Testament author uses that same principle of giving an honor. First Timothy 5, 17, 18, those who labor and teach. Of course, in First Corinthians 9, when Paul also talks about taking care of the oxen, he does not care for the oxen. That's not what he's talking about. First Corinthians 9 as well. Then you go to the concept of widows first. Paul gives restriction. 1St Timothy 5 James 1:27 also shows that widows poor the orphans, strangers, Hebrews 13:1 entertain strangers, you know. So you see that the concept, the lesson is there, but the culture is not prominent. Does it make sense? The culture is not there, but the culture was the mode. So what's going on?

Is this somebody now asked me a question, the person looked at me and said the. Then I mean, does it mean that, for example, if God uses the culture of the tithe, okay, which Abraham did by himself, Jacob promised by himself, and then he uses that culture to still communicate the concept of giving, generosity, honor, then does it mean that there was at some point in those cultures a semblance of the worship of God such that it became useful eventually? What is dicey? The truth is humanity, everywhere in humanity there is a thirst for God. That's how God made man. There is a thirst, it's perverted, it's twisted and all of that. So he will, as his custom is, he will use what's available.

And what's available, even if it's a perverse state, you know, becomes eventually, you know, when the power of the spirit gets on those kind of things, it reforms them in such a way that they become beautiful and useful. So yes, different nations at some point will have had that taste of his worship. And it comes to you. So look at it also, because I think it's a critical question because we look at the fact that, okay, if God will use this and use that, and I mean, to be able to use something means that it's close to what you want to see. So did that culture have an origin of the worship of God? Oh, sure, because God made man. And that's important because he made man. And this is what defeats theory of the tulip, the total deprivation concept of the scalping.

I said, no, there's nothing good in man. There's nothing good that there's nothing good in man. And then you look at the fact that God used. And I told someone, I said, the accommodation principle of the Old Testament, where God permits, right, defeats the thinking that there's nothing good in man. Because all we read in the Old Testament will be God's accommodation of human culture, ethos, religion, to bring in his word. So you can't say there's nothing good at all. So that total deprivation concept is dead on arrival because it doesn't sit well with the way scriptures are written anyway. So the supernatural world context of the Old Testament is it retained by the New Testament author? We said yes. And yesterday we looked at who a prophet is. Jeremiah 23.

I didn't read Job 15 and verse 6 and 7 is the man who stands to hear receive from the supernatural world from the host of heaven. So if any man speaks without standing or sitting with or receiving from the host of heaven, that man is a false prophet. But beyond that, it's not about the supernatural alone. It's about the fact that the supernatural here is in the fellowship of God, like Jeremiah 23 that we read yesterday. So if the words. So we said yesterday that the words of Scripture are first of all, what, supernatural, and then conveyed through the human culture. So they are first of all supernatural because the prophets who wrote, or the prophets who are the authors are meant to be conveyors, messengers, interpreters of the supernatural world. So again, we began to look at a few things.

Let me just mention some of them. We said the earth together. Like I said, we are just tidying up things. Let's get back to that. 2Nd Kings 17 were there yesterday, and the lack of reading the Scriptures in its own world is why we just pass some things off. 2Nd Kings 17 I remember one day like that somebody was teaching the output of the spirit. It was 1993. And so he was talking about the. It was a meeting. The teaching was the anointing. So he got to Joel 2. Sorry, sorry, Acts 2. Then he says and talked about, the sun shall be darkened, the moon. Then the way he said it that day, I looked up and he just said, you know, when there's the move of God in the earth, that we will see the signs, even in nature. So I felt, okay.

At what point he just said, the moon will darken. And I really didn't understand what that meant. You know, he just said it in person. So later on, when I asked him, he said, well, he just read somewhere and it's just another way to. To talk about the move of the spirit. Sun being darkened is not move of the Spirit. I just couldn't fathom that. Again, like I said, it's, you know, a lack of the understanding of Bible words. Of course, we've already debunked the use of moon and stars, that the Old Testament audience saw the whole world as supernatural. So even when they use natural things, they indicate for the supernatural. That's how they saw it. And we have seen that. That's how we should see it too. In spite of the modern world that we live in.

He founded it upon the seas, and that's clear. So in 2 Kings. Sorry, 2nd Kings 17, were there yesterday. He says, how be it every nation made gods of their own? Now, is this territorial and geographical and put them in their houses? We said, yes, the word Beith, where you have temple of the high places, which the Samaritans had made. Every nation in their cities wherein they dwelt, and the men of Babylon made Socoth, Benoth, and the men of Cuth made Nagal, and the men of Amath made Ashimah and Levites made no Nipvath and Tartach. And the Shabbat burned their children in fire to Adramelech and Anamalech, the gods of Shehavim. And so they feared the Lord and made unto themselves, lowest of them, priests of the high places, which sacrificed for them in the high places.

Of the high places, the house of the high places. They feared the Lord and served their own gods. Every man of the nations whom they carried away from hence. So we said yesterday that anything that binds has a supernatural undertone because it's the Genesis 11 narrative. Something just binds people. They just dress alike, they talk alike, they think alike. Okay? Anything that is binding like that, right? And we said that the word nations here, remember yesterday, Gohi, we said the word nations, G o y is not just geographical, which is also geographical. It's one second, the word nations. The word nations is people bound by culture, ethnicity too, anyway, bound by beliefs. Let me read the substitute for you. It says nations, or each of the nations were making their gods.

They put them in a house of the high places that Samaritan people had made in their cities in which they had settled in them. And so he says, they were fearing the Lord. They established their idols, verse 32, in the houses of the high places. So they were building temples. Notice that when Solomon also went, when he brought in strange women, one of the things he did was that he brought those strange women from different nations and he built a temple each for the idols. So each of the women came. People thought that Solomon's multiple wives was sexual fantasy. No, it wasn't. It's more of worship. In fact, it's debatable. But he had just three children, say three or four. I confirmed that. So it was more of worship. What is the core of the things? They turned his heart to other gods.

That was really the issue with Solomon, that they turned his heart to other gods. Let's figure that out first. Kings 11. These are the things that we won't look at in detail, but let's just leave. Let's just start here briefly. But King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zenonites and Itites. If you go back to the Exodus story, these are the nations where idol worship was called and the nations which the Lord said to the children of Israel, you shall not go in to them. Neither shall they come in unto you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods. Solomon came unto these in love and he had 700 wives, princesses and 300 concubines. And his wives turned away his heart.

It came to pass that when he was older, his wives turned away his heart after them. Notice that the emphasis here was on the gods. His heart was not perfect with the Lord as the heart of David his father. Solomon went after Asher, the goddess of Zidonites and Malcolm, the abolition of the Ammonites. He did evil in the sight of the Lord and went not fully after the Lord, as did David his father. Then did Solomon build a high place for Shemosh, the abomination of Moses, Moab in the hill which is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the children of Amnon. And likewise it all for all his strange wives. So he built a temple. Can you see it? Or all his strange wives which burnt incense sacrifice unto their gods.

So the real issue was, you know, now the core of that was that as yin fight was so as he was making entities, one of the gifts they were giving him were women. Women. And they came with it was a full package. Women and their gods. The women and their gods, the women and their gods. So whilst a lot of people are just looking at Solomon from the aspect, Solomon has 700 wives. That wasn't the issue. The issue was worship. It was worship. The connotation scripture gives is not. It wasn't like he was just a guy who was just after sex. No, no, that wasn't it. It was the question of worship gods. Elohim's. So notice again that as the women came from different nations, they came with gods to worship.

So back again, we're saying that whatever binds people, binds Genesis 11 binds them in unity. So Genesis 11. I would rather number one. Genesis 11 appears more like an archetypal thing, people coming together a particular place and you know, then he becomes a narrative that is used all over the world. That is people coming together to serve another God for Yahweh or to mock or mimic. And then God allows them what they want and that becomes a pattern. We can read into scriptures generally. So. We are closer to the supernatural world. More, more than we think, you know, more than we think. So they identify with nations, with territories, with people. Nations, territories, people don't forget. Look at Genesis 2. In the creation of.

In the creation of Genesis 1 and 14, let there be light in the firmament of the heavens to divide the Day and night. Verse 15. Let them be for light. Verse 16, two great lights. Verse 17. God sent them verse 18 to rule over. Now, Genesis 2:1 says, the heavens and the earth were filled, and the host of them. So we have hosts. The writer of Hebrews, we call them innumerable company of angels. Did you also notice that when God said to Abraham, look at the stars. Can you number them? So shall your seed be. Which means that these supernatural beings do not have that. You can't do a census for them. So which means that we are. The world is filled with supernatural beings, including man. So New Testament language, does it retain it? Oh, it does.

Look at Matthew 24, Denison, Matthew 24 and 29. Immediately after the middle of those days shall the sun be darkened. And the moon shall not give our light. And the stars shall fall from heaven. Notice the last statement. And the powers of the heavens. Now, you know that last statement should have explained it, right? Come on. Are you here? Remember the story chapter we looked at yesterday? Right. The powers of the heavens will be shaken. The powers of the heaven. The sun, moon and stars are not the powers of the heaven. So this is Old Testament language. The powers of the heaven will be shaking. Mark 13 and 24. He says, the sun shall be darkened. The moon shall not be by light. The stars of heaven shall fall. The powers that are in heaven. The powers that are in heaven will be shaken.

Now look at the counter. The son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory. Okay, Luke 21. And 25. There shall be signs in the sun, in the moon, and in the stars upon the earth. Distress of nations. Notice. Distress of nations with perplexity. The sea and the waves roaring. This is Genesis, right? Aha. The seas and the waves roaring. Men's hearts failing them for fear and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth. For the powers of the heaven shall be shaken. The powers of the heaven, he says, shall be shaken. So we are dealing with the supernatural world here. Acts 2 and 20. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon. Okay, let me take for 19. I will show wonders in heaven above and signs in the earth beneath. Blood.

Now, Earth belief, Old Testament language. Those are the seas, right? Don't forget that. All right. Then it says, blood and fire and vapors of smoke. The sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood. Before the great and notable day of the Lord will come. Revelation 6:12. When they had opened the sixth seal, and though there was a great earthquake and the sun became black as sacloth of air, and the moon became as blood. 13. As the stars of heaven fell onto the earth, the stars of heaven fell. So look at Revelation 8:12. The fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was written.

And the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars, as the third part of them were darkened, and the day shone not as the third part of it, and the night likewise. So he's again referring to the supernatural world. That's what we call the host of heaven. Language. Look at Psalm 80. Look at the direct text there. Psalm 89, verse 5. And the heaven shall praise thy wonders, O Lord. Thy faithfulness in the congregation of the saints. Verse 6. For who in the heaven can be compared to the Lord? Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the Lord? God is greatly to be fed in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that about him.

O Lord, God of hosts, who is strong like unto thee, and to thy faithfulness round about thee. Look at nine. Thou rulest the raging of the sea. We read that earlier. Right? And the woes thereof arise, you steal them. And it says in verse 10. Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces as one that is slain, which thou hast scattered an enemy with a strong hand. The heavens are dying, the earth are dying, the world and the fullness thereof fallen upon them. So this is the supernatural world. Look at Isaiah 13. So it means that the death of Jesus and his resurrection involve the host of heaven. Isaiah 13:10. I'll start from nine. Behold, the day of the Lord cometh cruel both with the wrath and fierce anger to lay the land desolate. It shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it.

For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light. And the sun shall be darkened in the going forth. And the moon, he says, shall not cause our light to shine. The sun shall be darkened, he says, the moon. Now look at chapter 24. Look, chapter five. First Isaiah 5:30. In that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of the sea. And if one looks in the land, behold, darkness and sorrow. And the light is darkened in the heavens thereof. This is not nature in the heavens thereof. Look at chapter 24, Isaiah 24. And verse 24:1. It shall come to pass. In that day the Lord shall appoint the host. Watch this. The host of the high ones that are on high, the kings of the earth upon the earth.

We're going to look at the connection between authority in the Earth and the host of heaven. Then it says in 23, then the moon shall be confounded and the sun ashamed, when the Lord of hosts shall reign in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before his ancients gloriously. So we have an indicator that we're reading the host of heaven. Supernatural beings. Job 38, 7 says, the son, the morning stars, causing the sons of God. Okay, Ezekiel 32, Verse 7 and verse 8. Watch this now. And then I shall put thee out. I will cover the heaven and make the stars thereof dark. I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give our light. Verse 8. All the watch this.

All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord God. Then it says, I will also vex the hearts of many people. Read that in Matthew 24. Now we can track back a bit to Exodus 10. So it's not. This is not a. A judgment from weather. Can you imagine someone say, it's raining here, it's not raining there. God is judging about weather not worth thou. Exodus 10:21 and he said to Moses, stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt. And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt. Three days. That's not NEPA or PHC enlight. No, in Exodus 15.

It was seen as a war in the heavenlies. Okay, look at verse five. The depths have covered them. The sank in the bottom of stone. The right hand, O Lord, has become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, as dash increases the enemy, then he says in verse nine, the enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake. I will divide the spoil. My law shall be satisfied upon them. I will draw my sword, My hand shall destroy them. Thou ist blow with thy wind. The sea covered them, and the sunk has lead in the mighty waters. Who is like unto thee, O Lord, among the gods? Elohim, who is like unto thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders. Thou stretched forth thy right hand the earth swell them up. So what happened in Egypt was supernatural. Okay, it was supernatural.

Job 9:7, Job 9:7, Verse six, which shaketh the earth out of our place, and the pillars there tremble, which commands the sun and his wise not and seals up the stars, which alone spreads out the heavens and treads upon the waves of the sea. These are narratives of the supernatural world. They are not discussing science in these conversations at all. So our information about the new Testament. You see, you need to read the Old Testament to understand the import of this word. Let's turn back again to Psalm 8. Psalm 8. O Lord our God, how excellent is your name. We'll talk about the name shortly. In all the earth who accept thy glory above the heavens, out of the mouth of waves and sucklings, thou ordain strength. Because of thine enemies, thou mayest stand still, the enemy and the avenger.

When I consider the heavens, the work of your hands, the moon and stars which you have ordained, what is man now? The moon and stars is the host of heaven. What is man that you are mindful of him, not the Son of Man, that you visit him. You made him a little lower than the Elohim. So what we have been describing earlier are the Elohim, spiritual beings, spirit beings, hosts of heaven. So we shouldn't. Now, why this should not be a surprise or something that is a bit astonishing because we've said to them, I said this, that we must ask, what is the nature of the earth? What's the identity? The earth is his rest place.

So if the earth is his restless and his throne, which we call the host of heaven, will be in his rest place, then it is not out of place for us to think supernaturally what we think about the earth. The earth is God's rest place, and his rest place is heaven and earth, or heaven on earth. So our thinking of the earth cannot be purely natural. Then we have all men. Ridiculous. So yesterday, looking at the toy chair. Let's just revisit some things we saw. Galatians 4. Galatians 4. Paul says in verse 3, when were children were in bondage unto the spiritual elements of the world. Does that make sense? Spiritual rulers of the world. Spiritual rulers of the world. The story chair.

Then in verse eight, how when you did not know God, you did service to them, which are by nature and know God. Then he says, but now, after you have known God, or rather known of God, how turn you against the weak and beggarly spiritual elements, elemental spirits of the world? When we desire again to be in bondage, notice this. Now it says, you observe days, months, times and years. Those are seasons, right? Colossians 2, Verse 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. After the treasures of men. That the moment that he mentioned man, we quickly switch off and think he's just talking, just mere knowledge. No, after treasures of men. After the rudiments. So chair, or the mental spirits, rulers of the world. Not after Christ. Rulers of the World.

So rulers of the world is not talking about your local government chairman. That's the wrong thinking because the local government chairman can even be a Christian. You know, I mean, many are Christians. Colossians 2:20. Before we get to that 2:20, we read 2:15. Having spoiled principality and powers, he made a shoe of them, openly triumphing over them in it. Now, is this an earthly reality or an heavenly reality? Or both? It has to be both, because in showing that triumph, he does it through the church. Okay, we've done, I mean we have studies on this already. Let no man therefore judge you in meat or in drink, or in respect of an holy day, or new moon or Sabbath, which are shadow of things to come by the bodies of christ. Look at 18.

Let no man beguile you of your reward in voluntary humility and worshipping of angels. Now let's key that we said we should change angels to what host of heaven, intruding into those things which he has not seen daily popped up by his own mind. So these are the unseen things, the unseen world, the unseen realm. Hebrews 11. Three things that were made were not made, or things which do appear. Verse 19. Not holding the head from that which of the body and joints man, being nourished, having nourishment, ministered and knit together, increase with the increase of God. Look at 20. Then he says, wherefore if you be dead with Christ? From the rudiments, we suggested the elemental spirit, ruling spirits of the world. Why are you living in the world? Are you subject to ordinances? The ruling spirit of the world.

Now in First Corinthians, chapter two. So there's a connection between philosophy, human wisdom. There's a connection between. Now where is that connection? That connection? How do I know? Now Moses says in Deuteronomy 13, if any dreamer, okay, say something that comes to pass. Now, like I said, we're going to come home with it at some point and say a prophet or a dream. You just think he's talking about somebody wearing white garments, somebody appearing on tv. No, he says if he shows you a sign and it comes to pass. For example, maybe some folks predicted and said things about, you know, maybe the COVID and said this will happen. And there's a way that when those things happen and they are precise, maybe they predicted something. I'm talking about science. And we seem to follow them very easily and then begin to believe that.

I mean they predicted. I remember somebody said this to me. That was. We're having a meeting in London, so we're trying to do something together. Some guys from America, Asia, Nigeria. So that was 2015. So this 15 or 14 I think was. So the guy just said this guy in fact my like an elder brother kind of person and you know, was a senior business partner. So he told me that the guy was gay right there. And he introduced me to the guy as a pastor. We're having breakfast. So the guy sat there and he told me, he said in fact his name maybe still was Paul. So, so he said that about 32 stories. There was one that happened when I was in Singapore, went for this cool oil marketing conference. So I went for marketing conference. So this guy stood up then.

Oil, Oil was. I think it was, yeah, at last time 2008 I think it was about 130 or 140. The man just said it was in the glass. And the man said by August into September he said crude oil will go to $30. I just said what did he drink? Maybe he was drunk. And exactly what he said came to pass. So when I sat with this other guy in London and the guy said to me, he said there I think naira was 120. He said that naira is going to go to about 300, 400. I started laughing. I said oh, it doesn't look like it's only 10 naira, 5 naira. He said by this year and this year.

So while I was thinking then he said Nigeria is going to enter recession between 2015, 2016, I mean then said to me funny enough that other guy is a Muslim married to a Christian. So he goes to church and mosque. He said that. Anyway, I still told him last week. He said, he said that, you know, that God will understand him, that he believes in Jesus. He believes. So I said if these guys, this is how he told me say these guys were around in the days of Joseph, right? He said God will use a dream to tell Pharaoh. He said we just tell him to go and talk to him. He said do you understand how things work in this world now imagine those things now coming to pass. And unfortunately some men of God are now from signed by election.

It now didn't come to pass, you know. And you now look at these guys and look at them and say they must know something. You think that what they are doing is just natural. It's not. It's not. Moses was saying and the thing will come to pass. He said then he now says let us go and worship other gods. Pay attention to the conclusion. Usually we get carried away and that can also happen to you in a church setting. Are you here? Pay attention to the conclusion. That's what Colossians are saying. He said, no, this is where we are going in this series. But I'll just give you a snippet when you guys say, now let's follow this. Every philosophy has its conclusion. That's where it's taking you to.

Like I've said to people, I said, if you just study the patterns of civil unrest and all of that. Usually civil unrest is a pattern. People will fight for their rights. And they'll say, in fact, let me show you another one. Many times, most dictators in Africa, who eventually became dictators, not just Africa, Europe, that became dictators and tyrants. They started out as human rights activists. They want to fight for their people. They want to liberate their people. They want to do this one, they want to do this one. They want to that at the end of. Even when you look at the west in between the we want freedom for everybody, they will just drop accept this one. There's something at the back of it. The development comes with worship or something. It's a philosophy, a thinking.

Then you look at that philosophy and what does he hold? Christ. Does it lead me to the worship of God? Are you following what I'm saying this morning? So you see the gyrants, they will say, we are coming to fight for you with this one. At the end of the day, they become exactly what you they said you were fighting against. That's what happens. I mean, look at. Even in this country, every. If you go and read every coup speech I, I used to study them. The first thing everybody says is corruption. It's like they just edit your own. So the last person will accuse the last person. Till you get to that point. What's going on here? The philosophy is being pushed. So at the end of the day, you notice that I said the unrest is a pattern. It increases ungodliness.

In fact, atheism increases as people just say no, they're fighting for this one. And usually, and unfortunately, like some. Somebody who told me, he said he noticed that some of these bad tendencies that people are fighting for in human rights activism and stuff like that are promoted by even the churches. A wrong teaching, twisting of scripture, pushing out slavery, pushing out gender discrimination. This is not biblical, but it comes out. People now fight against it. And then, you know, forget God, you know about God, you know, so you know, and then the unrest comes. So where is this conclusion? Where is it going to at the end of the day. So when Paul says that these things do not hold to Christ, it doesn't point to him. Then you sit back and say, where am I going to hell?

Somebody was telling me he was going to the entertainment industry was years ago. He said, pastor, I said, I would definitely encourage you. And it was music. I said, but if you can just wait a few years and be a strong believer so that you can negotiate, handle the things of this world with a deep understanding of what this world is about, spiritually speaking. I said, you can give yourself time so that you are a strong. Because you see you will just be carried. And the wave of this world doesn't have a limit. You even know why you're not start thinking the way they think. I know. I said, maybe give you some time and be well entrenched. I was telling some of the. Some of these guys who are into politics. I said, look, you know, it's not church. I said, yes.

So because it's not church, make sure that you are like my friend. You said that. He said, make sure that your believer believes very well so that you are not the one demons are casting out. That's how I said it. So. So the signs are following you. You have to believing, but very believing because you are in this world and you must know what you know true about matters that we are seated on high. We are in God's garden. And that must. That's why our identity must be very clear to us when Paul is warning them. Hope you're learning something. So your thinking of this world cannot be just natural. Colossians 2, we read that earlier. 20. Let's see. Second Peter 3, verse 10. Day of the Lord come as a table night.

The heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with favorite heat. We read that in the Old Testament, right? So the structure you see the sun, moon and stars of the earth. Well, well. Shall not be fervent heat. The earth also, and the works that are there, and shall be burned up. Then it says in verse 12, looking for and hastening to come to the day of God, where the heavens being on fire, will be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The elements shall melt with fervent heat. So which means that he situates First Corinthians 2. I don't know why I skipped that. First Corinthians 2.

Remember when Jesus, when they came to Jesus and to arrest him in Luke 22, he said to them in 53, he said, I was with you Daily in the temple you stretch forth no hands against me. Luke 22:53 but this is your hour and the power of darkness. This is your hour and the power of darkness. First Corinthians 2. And verse eight. Okay, I'll start from six. How big we speak wisdom among them that are perfect. Yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that come to nothing. Rulers are con. Rulers of this world. Is that Old Testament language or someone as that. Okay, host of heaven. Rulers to rule the night and day. Rulers of this world that come to nothing. Then it says, we speak the wisdom of God in the mystery, even the hidden wisdom.

Wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Verse 8. Which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. So in the crucifixion of Jesus, there's an earth side and there's a what? A heavenly side. And they were working together. So when Jesus was talking to Cephas, he said, you see the son of man coming in the clouds? That's heaven. Said, this is the power of darkness. In John 12. John12, Verse 31. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. The prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. The prince of this world. John 12:31 Be cast out. Matthew 12:29.

How can anyone enter into a strong man's house and spoil his good? Except he first bind the strong man, then he will spoil his house. Then he will spoil his house. Jesus is talking about his death here. Then he will spoil his house. Look at Luke 10:18. Luke 10:18 when those guys went out to preach, God said, we're astonished that the demons are subject to us to your name. Luke 10:18 he said, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Luke 10:18 I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. So the sun, moon and stars again depicted there. So when they say the stars were falling, that is supernatural. I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. John 12, John 14. Sorry, and verse 30. For I will not talk much with you.

For the prince of this world comes and found and finds nothing in me. John 16:11 of judgment because the Prince of this world is judged. John 16:11 the prince of this world is judged. The prince of this world is judged. Acts 26:18 Paul to turn their eyes. This is the preaching of the Gospel. And to turn them from darkness to light. Now when we use darkness, where did we first read darkness in scripture? Genesis 1:2. And it's not atmospheric darkness, okay? That's why Isaiah 60 says darkness covers the earth, gross darkness, its people. Darkness was over the face of the deep. And God said, let there be light. So the use of darkness shows us, right, that the world has a supernatural context. Now this is where the challenge is.

When people get to the fringes of this and they leave it out the world. But the truth is that the core issue is that man, right, is an evolved reality. Man is not of a lesser component or disposition. So that's why to teach our identification and who we are in Christ Jesus, in God's word, is very core to understanding the identity of the earth as well. So here we have to turn them from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, inheritance among them, which are sanctified by faith, which is in me. 2Nd Corinthians 4:4.

If our gospel be hid, he says, is heed to them who are lost in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is image of God, should shine on them. So our idea of darkness and light stems from the elements of this world. So this world is founded around heavenly realities. And that's why Paul will say, I, therefore I cannot my speech and my preacher preaching cannot be with the enticing words of man's wisdom, but the demonstration of the spirit and of power that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. That's why I say the weapons of our warfare, 2 Corinthians 10:3, 4, are not canal but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds.

I told you before, many of the wars that Israel fought, and they say all were wars, there were spiritual warfare in context. So there is the human side and there's the heaven side, or there's the earth side and there's the heaven side to what was done. So the elements of this world. So a believer has to be heavily minded. When we say heavenly minded, it's not where you go to where you die heavenly minded. There's a heaven side to earthly things in the world. There's a heaven side to the earth. There's a supernatural world context to the earth itself. And that should inform how we think. We take it all in details. Like we mentioned that it's very easy to think that when we talk about idols, we're talking about something ancient. But look at 1 Corinthians 8.

Four, as concerning therefore, the eating of those things which are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. Now, nothing doesn't mean it doesn't exist. Is that clear? And there is none other God but one. For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven on earth, God many, and Lords many, but to us there is but one God, the Father of whom are all things, and him and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things and we by him. So it says, heaven and earth has lords and gods. The New Testament writer retains it. So today we have to. This is not the midstream tonight. I mean today, this time. But let's look at the unifiers what unifies this world. In Corinth, we have seen that the Corinthian worldview, the Exodus worldview, are alike.

So is 2023 like Paul's Day? Yes, it is. And same way that there was no Corinth in the Old Testament, but there was current in the New Testament, an evolved city, a place. The moment we said people were. Look at Paul when He said in First Corinthians 12, he said, you know, verse two, that you were Gentiles. He used a common word, carried away or carried away unto these dumb idols even as you were led. So something bound them, their worship, their thinking pattern, their philosophies. So nations are not just geographical anymore, alone. Sorry. There are also things bound by philosophy, bound by thinking patterns will detect the moment we see something uniting people. Right. We are detecting a supernatural world view. And it's not by telling them you guys are. No, no, no.

It's an approach that we take, you know, in the spirit and approach that meeting. Somebody was saying this, that was two days ago, was talking about the laws of the land. So he said that if you disobey the laws of the land. He was, when he said it. So he now, someone now asked him a question. He was saying or something about, you know, the way we twist the Scriptures. When he was working, I think he was talking about protest or something. So he was not saying, if you speak Lord of the land, something about revelation, something about God and all that. So but I was not particular until now said Daniel that. So someone else said, but Daniel, you know, did not obey the law of the land. And he said, well, the answer he gave was very funny.

He said, well, that was Bible days that these are different. So I now said to Him I said, the issue about it laws of the land in Daniel was worship. The moment he talks about my worship, it is no longer because Romans 13 when Paul talked about the laws, he said they are meant to be terror to injustice and unrighteousness and evil. But if it comes to my worship. So when someone told me and we're talking about the COVID lockdown and he said to me said, well, at some point then I saw his phone. He said, look, if this begins to impugn on our worship of God and we can't gather another. I said, well, at this point, this is to preserve lives. That when it comes to preserving lives, that there is no way around it.

Even in Exodus world to preserve a life, the midwives, right, said that the children of the Hebrews were just coming out of no labor. Now you call it a lie, right? That's what you say Scope, but it's not so. It preserves a life. And preserving that life is of a high biblical principle. Preserve the life. I said the same thing that Samuel say, you're going to worship. That's not all he was going to do. You know, he concealed it. I said, so therefore, if the government is telling us to do this, to reserve this is fine. But if we now see that hey, the disease has waned, they now say that is no longer. That's now. Are you getting my point? That's now worship.

So until that happens, I said, I have no fears say because myself if we gather today, I asked you to wear their mask and we're going to do that. I'm going to do prison. Said, I know you know all these things. I said. I said, some of the people you are accusing are born again people. Many of the people were held of their born. Some of them are even members of your church. Are they also working for the Antichrist? Calm down. But the moment they say write no more Bible teaching. If they say, okay, preach for 30 minutes so that we gather for long. So I can. In fact, some nations are oh, were blessed. Some nations. In Africa they shut down churches for five months. There was no just be worshipping God. You are the temple of God on your own.

So don't say that. But the government said no, we cannot gather that. Nathaniel's case was about worship. They made a statue. Say be biased. He won't do it. They should not pray to his God. Pray to the three Hebrew children. They said they made a statue. They were not careful to answer you. It's not. We're not saying. But why now not careful. So Those are different things. So they tell you to. They post traffic light. You say, you are going for evangelism. You cannot wait. Or they say that okay, do not. Did they say you should not sing? Then I said, don't put your speaker. I don't know that you'll take your speaker point to the road. What kind of. I told somebody. I said, even me. The guy was really annoyed. I said, how can you put your chair? You know?

I said, I said, even me. The temple of God. You are disturbing the temple of God here. The guy was upset. I said, you are disturbing. You are using temple to disturb temple. One temple has to keep quiet. When he now removed the speakers and close the church said, the church is being fought against. I said, let me tell you something. If I were the government official, I would shut that church. I said, yes. That's how I told the person, you went to school, you are not doing well, you are filling your school books. He has said, you are called to the ministry. I said, come here. I said, me, I was your parents. I will stop you from going to that church. Pastor. I said, yes, face your hooks. Is that fair? The law of the land. Law of the land.

This law is. The law. Pay your taxes. He said, no, it's antichrist thing. Wait, is it Christ that is supplying you power? Supplying the amenities? Say no, the earth is the Lord. Okay, no problem. So the moment the thing is possible pointing to worship. And you must be discerning. You detect something. Are you here? This is. This is not about. Not that everything you sit down. So they said, do your nin. Is it Wash? Wash. Don't become crazy. Okay. You see Wash Ni. This one that I giving all of us number. I am thinking I want to be in the number. Is it number? Is it a number? It's a supernatural world context. Things bind people and takes worship. And worship doesn't mean have to be something you are saying you know about. No. For example, you can be. You can worship entertainment.

I think we're at that point where people don't think church is exciting until they are entertained. So they had to spice up the service. When Charles portrayal said years back that the time will come that there will be clowns in the churches, they thought it was a joke. There are clowns now in the services. They don't recall everything. Now, today it's easier to have comedians mimic churches. And this is a permission given to them by church. When you bring them to the pulpit to begin to, you know, make people laugh. Now I'm Definitely not against.

If you have a birthday, you can have people, you know, in fact, if you have an MC that just talking straight and it says, this is the bad day of our brother and sister, You know, I mean, you have people who can sing, you know, and they can. Sometimes when we have all these things and we have instrumentalists to go beyond board, you know, things holding them back, they, they know, it's just restriction. They looking at the people. Let's identify this thing, you know, but the point you have those things and where there's no restraint, the person can come up and, you know, make people laugh and stuff like that in a. Maybe a birthday of believers, you know, and all of that. But we have to know we can't be worshiping entertainment such that it has to be part of our worship.

I is not part of. How can church just be. So can you just be teaching like that and teaching and prayer. That's all, that's all. No, Christianity is exciting, See, it's exciting. And people are growing thinking that way. It's exciting, it's exciting. And when he says exciting, it's not talking about winning souls, casting out demons, healing the sick, revelations of God. No, it's exciting. In the Old Testament, what was the sign and wonder was a supernatural world. Now the sign and wonder is see, we're now in the service. Do not crave more worship. I saw what. So the choir now came from the ground. I said, this is my production. You don't know what I'm talking about. He didn't touch. So you now see that they got him from the world. So one day I was wondering why this church was doing this.

So I just saw one click by. Is it that we know now? Was it an OTO arena? The way he came in? And I said, no, is this guy bona boy? The way he came in, I said, this is. This cannot, this can't happen in the church act. You are now excited. Wow. Did not get their phone. Whereas in Exodus they went to the mount and they saw the God of Israel. Do you get it? And the glory of God filled the place. That's, you know, that is where our attention should be on. So we have to be very wary of philosophies that push us away from the worship of God. The genuine, sincere worship of God. So the earth is founded on the supernatural world. We can look at Matthew 5 here, learning something.

Look at how Jesus connects heaven and earth in verse 33 again, you have heard. It has been said by them of old time, thou shalt not forswear thyself, for thou shalt perform unto the Lord thine hosts. But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither by heaven, for it's God's throne. Now, when you say heaven, that's heavenlies, right? It will be the host of heaven. It's God's throne. Or by the earth, it is footstool. Now, when I say by footsteps. Full stool is not the seat of the. I mean the bottom of the chair. No, footstool is where you exercise that authority. So if the earth and the heavens are described as footstool and throne, that means they intersect. So our thinking of the earth has to change our thinking of the earth.

And I'm saying this as I start to close that if we understand this right, and I trust God, that when we get to a point in this series, because this series is taking the dimension of salvation. I think so. You think so too. It will get to some points here. Why you pray will be clear to you while you pray. While now be clear to you, it will. It's meant to deepen your prayer life. Why you pray? Because like I said yesterday and also on Wednesday, there is no greater exercise of the believer's authority like prayer. You now know why you must take words more seriously than you do. All right, let's stop today with the like I said.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/