Let's pray. Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for yet another time to fellowship around the written word on the subject of the supernatural world seated on high. Thank you for the light you brought our way and the body of Christ. We ask this morning that you grant us further understanding. We believe and receive that doubts are cleared this morning, that myths are unraveled and clarified in our eyes, and there is no darkness or dark spots or shadows in our understanding of who you are. And together as a church, we build Jesus Christ, your Son, even as he sees us in heaven. This study is glorified as we edified and built up by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside those who hear us on the body of Christ. Amen. Let's have a seat. 2Nd Timothy 3.

I'm still not going to be able to get into how idols emerge, but by the time we get there, you discover that we have been there already. So pay attention. 2Nd Timothy 3:16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. It's profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And we said that if all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is referring to the Old Testament, the epistles therefore rest its revelation on the truth of the Old Testament. So we ask the question, does the epistles retain the context of the Old Testament? The Old Testament was largely, basically supernatural in its thinking, which means that the way we are, we're going to look at something and there's a man I'm going to quote and some comments that he made.

I was not getting to the Book of Mark, but maybe I'll just hint it a bit in the second session. But when we look at that, Jesus actually dealt with territories, because in that Matthew 16, why did Jesus choose areas? He chose areas, definite areas, in Matthew 16, when he says, upon this rock I'll build my church and the gates of hell. And he was in a geographical area. And by saying gates of hell. And when Peter says, you are the Christ, son of living God, Jesus actually confronted a territorial authority by that statement. And that gives us the pattern of the kind of gospel that we preach in today's world.

We said that the word gospel itself from the Old Testament, that's why the Greek is a little bit dodgy when you use huajalion, even though huaji Leon, also explanatory, also brings in the concept of the sota, the person, authority and noble. But what carries it the most is that Old Testament term of basa, where basa talks about war. It's majorly news from war. News about war or a territory, you know, won by war. And if that is the meaning of preaching the gospel, then my mindset, right, can never. That's why Paul says that is not by the enticing words of man's wisdom. It has to be by the Spirit's power. First Corinthians 2, 1:5. And so our thinking has to be Bible thinking. And context is key, right? Context is very important.

Just this morning, somebody just less than 10 minutes ago, someone texted me. He's a pastor I'd known for about 30 years, maybe less than 30 years. So he said, I got what you said about context that the Bible is in. He said to an audience and he says, the local church, he said, but some of us, we got our revelation outside the local church. I said, well, I guess Jesus will answer that. That what I just told you is plain. He said, yes, I'll stay with that because that's what's plain. I don't know what the relationship was not talking about. And I didn't want to hear it because I wanted to keep our relationship. So the context is key. What did the audience hear? You know, what did they hear?

And we said that they were not as daft as we assumed that they were. That's the Old Testament audience. So let's get back to this. So if the scriptures written, right, with the context of supernatural. Hebrews 11, letter of Hebrews. So it says in verse one, faith. And when he talks about faith here, and you know, we said that the word faith here is a codified language, right? It brings in many terms together. Faith is our belief in God's faithfulness. And God's faithfulness or the long suffering of God is the Old Testament. So you can call this the Old Testament is the substance of things old. For you can call this term Old Testament books. And it says the evidence of things not seen. So the word not seen was repeated so that you won't lose sight of it.

Then it also says, we see. I mean, look, Hebrews 11, 12, 2 looking also verses not seen. So here are you looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of faith or his faithfulness. You don't even find physical sight in that explanation. So he says here things hope for things not seen. Providers of faith. We understand that the worlds were framed. And on Sunday, I think we looked at the word walls. Where in today's terminology, when we say world, we are referring to the earth, space or the planet. But the Old Testament person and the New Testament or the I saw world, Ainian and cosmos as a present system order of things. And they could be referring to a building as world, they could be referring to an activity as world, whereas it will not be conformed to this world.

For example, in Romans 12:1, if we are going to look at that word technically, where Paul says don't be conformed to this world, was talking about that dichotomy between Jews and Greeks, that is the Gentiles and the Jews. But be transformed of your mind that you may present that which is good. I said I'm sorry. Verse one, when it says mercy of God, I present your body. So that's union, a living sacrifice. That's the union of Gojus and Gentiles, who of course with God, which is your reasonable worship, which is that God has built a temple. That's why his temple has built a temple that have Jews and Greeks together. So you present that union. It is in that you renew your mind.

So technically he was talking about, look, there is no Daikoto because that's what dealing with throughout the book, the unity of, you know, Jews and Gentiles. He dealt with that till the last chapter. Course he presented the fact that the Jews were the vehicle to which God rode to nations in Romans 9:11. So just like here too, when he says things hoped for, then he says by worlds. So the worlds here will mean activities, the order of things, those things that we see in God's faithfulness. All right, it's dealing with men, which is the Old Testament. So you can say Hebrews 11:1 is also men. The Old Testament books, the activities, the promises, the covenants is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. It says by it the worlds were framed.

So when you say worlds there, that means how things happened. Right, how things happened, what happened to men through men were framed by the word of God that the things that are seen were not made of things which do appear. Which means there was a heavenly perspective, a supernatural world perspective to the things that we read. So if this is the context of the Old Testament, the question is, did the New Testament author retain it? Well, if it doesn't, it will be. Now don't forget that the Old Testament part of the Bible is the cultural context. Now it's a bit tricky because how do you separate the cultural context from the religion? Every culture has religion. That's why God also borrowed religions in communicating his Word.

There's a whole lot of borrowed practices of the worship of deities in the Old Testament, expression of God's revelation. And the reason why it was so is because that was what was available. So the Old Testament context will be that culture. All right, what is that culture will be the Old Testament. Let me say this. It's not as smooth to find out what is the Old Testament as people do it. And that one fell swoop approach is why we keep having issues with the authority of the Old Testament. Let me give you an instance now where and if you go and read the book, his righteousness we did do some expression, and the coming book will have a bit more clarity. Also, the one we have on the Lord Jesus Christ should be out before believers convention.

Now that one, in that book, we did say that, yeah, Moses gave laws. And in those laws, if you picked or you took books and you could not check yourself, if you do book take books that were contemporaneous, that is contemporary, which were written about the same time, you will discover that those laws were similar. Okay, so now if those laws were similar, that is the Old Testament context or content, that means Moses simply took an existing law, then edited it to suit the culture of the church. Are you following what I'm saying here now? That everything that he did was for all purpose, to carry a revelation, a culture, to carry a truth to the people, to make a change?

No, we said that just like we live in Israel, the book is, and of many other things we have done, that it was progressive, gradual, you know, so at that point, whatever. And that's why the Hebrew writer says the polytropos and polymoros in, you know, he kept giving, bringing his word gradually. So in that gradually, you will find existing cultures and practices that is not unique to scripture. But let me just mention this. It is said that in human history, and this can be checked, whether it's by archaeology or anthropology, that the Ten Commandments and the law of Moses was actually revolutionary in human history, that the origin of human rights and, you know, protection of civil liberties stemmed from the law of Moses because it was like a counter culture in that existing world.

So the Old Testament portion would be what was taken from man cultural wise. Culture wise. For example, the issue of tithe. I said that on Sunday that tithe didn't come from God. Now we can say all things come from God. You know what I mean by that? You know, it's like a new statement. But tithe didn't come from God. The concept of the Passover didn't come from God. The concept of the feasts, you know, you could see them in other cultures. Horsefruits. But what there's an argument I can put forth later. And this is the truth that what sin does oftentimes to pervert what is good, you know? So perversion came. And God will always call light out of darkness. So he took it. Okay, this is what you guys are thinking.

Let me use this that you brought in the concept of the circumcision of the heart. Man was limited by the flesh. He now brought that of the heart. And Macy said it. Job 30, he said, your heart will sacrifice that of your seed that you may live in the land that God has promised you. And sins that Abraham. So circumstances of the flesh is human culture, Old Testament, not circumcision itself. Because our heart by believing is not circumcised. Same thing as the feast eating of unleavened bread is in human history. But the fellowship with those that you were delivered and set, put together, where you see yourself as the same, is the word of God. Is that very clear. So the Old Testament is something that you can't rush into it. You can't say, that's Old Testament. A man must have God, woman.

I said that's Old Testament. You can wear anything. Then you missed it. Because in the concept of God holiness, when you go to Canaan, that's the world system. Whatever brings worship, even in clothes, you separate yourself from it. That's the New Testament part of that Old Testament message. I mean vessel. You get it? So there is the what is the intestine? Why was this said? And you will discover that when it comes to the word of God, the why is really what's important. Why did he ask them not to eat certain foods? It's not dietary, it's not for health at all. It's because of worship. I've said that before. We're going to also look at Leviticus again on that because of the issue of the blood of Jews and all that. So God, back to what we're saying.

The New Testament writer, does he retain the culture? No, he doesn't. He can't. Because this is Greco Roman. In fact, the very fact that by the time Jesus came as a man, they were using the Greek Bible, the self taught already shows you that things have changed. Culture wise or culturally wise. But the message remains the same. And as we have emphasized, no author of the New Testament or speaker, Jesus inclusive, did anything to denigrate the Old Testament books. There was nothing of that nature. That's the Old Testament, leave it alone. Nobody made such comments. And so we shouldn't. So now, does the New Testament up or return the context? Of course, on Sunday we began to look at the. I don't know whether I should start because starting on that one today may be tough. Maybe next week. I'll do it tomorrow again.

In the first service, we said there is a codified silence because we often have done that before. But I've been careful in the past years now to say, when the New Testament is silent, be silent. So we have the question, was the New Testament really silent? Because to assume this is silent is to think that it was written to you. Now, if the New Testament books was not written or were not written to you, that means that the writer assumes that his audience is known. Now, if I'm talking to a known audience, right, there are assumptions I will make. Look at some things I just said now. I said, we'll talk about it next week. Now, if somebody that I did not intend to listen to, of course, I pray that menu is all over the world. Somebody just said, hey, next week.

Then he now listens to this teaching in 2036. Then he comes here Saturday, which Saturday? This Saturday. He shows up on Saturday, you know, and maybe at that time is a cell group that is meeting here and they are cleaning the place. So he begins to ask for you, say, I'm sorry I said, But he told us, you know, he's assuming I had him in mind. I didn't have you in mind. If you are listening to me right now in 2036, you know, so that writer has the assumption that he knows his audience. Now, if he knows his audience, he will not say everything in a letter. There will be no reason to, you know, you could only write everything in a letter when that is all the communication you have with. Am I making sense here? So where is he silent?

It is an assumption of his that he is the audience is known to him and that their communication is beyond that letter. So it is not strong enough. Which means that if we cannot substantiate a doctrine in the Old Testament, it may be falsehood, it may be total falsehood. That's why over the years, notice I kept making the emphasis that there are things in Romans, not in First Corinthians. Right? There are things, you know, because they were. Most of those letters were subject of fact specific. They were addressing certain issues and they were not common issues. Right. You know, and what is most common? Like I, you know, that I told you what that preacher told me.

And he said to me, an Orthodox retired, he said, what is what if you say she said, I I know you are a Paul person, Pauline person. What is common to Paul's what is really common is unity. That's what is common from Romans to maybe the pastoral letters, even at that I look at to Philemon is unity. Romans 1 Corinthians Something is coming together in Paul's letters, but the issues are very different. So the facts, the subject matters will be different. If you are talking about the gifts of the Spirit, for example, that we call today. And that's why I said it's very dangerous to fix it upon 1 Corinthians 12. And it's very dangerous. We must find its context in the Old Testament. And this is what we have done in our book Characteristics Ministry.

To open it up in the Old Testament and give a wider that narrow thinking possible. Evangelist, master, teacher is so narrow that if you open it up, you are able to see what is common in the body of Christ. Therefore, the codified silence we said is an assumption by the writer of the New Testament, right? That he knows his audience and that audience is familiar with certain other things he has said or taught elsewhere. Now you know, we said the codified language is where the author writes for another book and he summarizes it in words and terms that when you open it up, it opens a new whole world altogether with persons, events, times, places, scenarios.

So therefore a codified language would mean that quotes of the Old Testament in the New Testament are meant to be referenced to go back and read the whole thing. That's Kotrilla. The codified silence is where he's saying nothing. It does not mean he is invalidating, just means he has an assumption that you, right, are his audience or the readers are his audience. Now look at the way we said on Sunday 1st Corinthians 9 and of verse 9 and 10, where Paul was talking about giving to ministers and he used the and he goes to Deuteronomy 25:4. Now you will be bit before those because you wonder why is Paul writing like this? That is not written in the law. Don't model the matter of those that trust the corn. They say, Paul, why are you bringing up taking care of animals?

Look at that assumption. He then said, does he care about oxen? You think he's talking about oxen? Look at that assumption. That means that Abu taught them he knew, just like said, know ye not he knew that they should know how to interpret his anomaly outside the confines of animals and use of farm implements. But you and I will say, Paul, where did you teach us this. The point is, were you in his meetings? No. So just like that, imagine things that surround it. And we said on Sunday that look at the concept of Titan. It's not a false writings. And I will say that again and again, but the Titan is Chaldean. It's within the culture of Abraham before Yahweh called him. So he used it to honor my president. Genesis 14.

So does it mean that this is a very writer is quiet? No, he isn't. He assumes that, you know, you are his audience. So we now looked at Naomi that day and we saw that Paul actually used the same principle for the stranger, the widow, the orphan and those who serve. That all those things were already taken care of in his letters. So if you took care of them letters, then where did he teach it? He was not his direct audience. So let this be clear. No scripture was written to you. So the silence of the author might be a qualified one. Just like I said this morning. Delve into it a bit more. Hope that's a bit clear. Come to me, huh? So which means that when you say, where is silent? Be silent. No, that has a lot of exceptions.

Rather, what we should be particular about, and this is one of the things that we set out to do over the years, is how did the New Testament author interpret the Old Testament? That is what we should be particular about. I will say this to you very easily, that the New Testament author actually covers the epistles that was put together from the four Gospels, actually covers the entire Old Testament. It's just how intelligent we are in how we read them together. So how silent is the New Testament author about the supernatural world? We have said, no, he wasn't silent at all. Look at efficiency. Now, efficiency has a very interesting flow in the use of words, right? Very, very interesting. I think it's one of those books that require a lot of thinking. Look at Ephesians 1. So I'm trying to skip something.

Okay, Ephesians 1. In Paul describing the resurrection of Jesus, He says he was raised, verse 21, far above all principalities, power, might and dominion. We looked at this earlier. And every name that is named, not only in this world, but that which is to come. Now, this means that Paul saw a supernatural view of Jesus resurrection. Now we're going to look at whether the four gospels captures it. It does too, but in a different way. Now I want to read a statement by a man called Walter Wink in his book Naming the Powers. And he said, modern people tend to assume that the ancient people conceived of principalities and powers and believed in them in the same way that we conceive and believe or disbelieve in them.

We think the thought of powers quite literally as a variety of invisible demonic beasts flapping around in the sky, occasionally targeting some luckless mortal with their malignant payload of disease, loss, possession or death. This view of their view finds its way into even the most modern or best of the modern translations of the Bible, where words like spiritual and spirit are taken to mean that non material entities are involved. Therefore, we read ancient accounts of encounters with these powers. Some can only regard them as hallucinations since they have no real physical reference. In short, our eyes and minds are captive to a way of seeing and thinking that can only regard demons or evolving powers as either invisible versions of persons like ourselves or as fantasies similar to dragons or helms or hills. A God that we fix between us and.

And the biblical writers, we use the same words, but project them into a wholly new, different world of meanings. If our goal is to understand the New Testament concept of the powers, we must instead attend carefully to the unique vocabulary and concepts to grasp what they meant by power within their own language and worldview. It's a venture to disbelieve in something that does not exist, but is dangerous and arrogant to disbelieve in something that simply because it exists outside our current or limited categories. This is exactly what I've been saying, that we seem to think that they are stupid, that the way they talk about powers is like floating in the sky. They just go on the streets. And of course some of the movies we watch don't help, but they are very intelligent and we are not smarter as we assume.

If we really are going to understand the Bible, we must think the way they thought and we must not be arrogant. Now look at Paul's explanation of principalities, powers, might and dominion. We're going to just look at something very interesting at it. You know, we said that this is Paul's expansion of host of heaven, right? Are you there? Which is host in Hebrew, which means a structure, Right, Like a military structure. Actually. Now look at elsewhere. He used that word in Ephesians 2 and 2. It says, according to the prince of the power of the air, which is authority, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedience. Largely Old Testament language. You know, we said that the Old Testament uses sons for a group, Right? Right. Sons of the prophet, a group. We'll probably look at that tomorrow again.

So you see how he describes human beings and their conduct from a structured authority. Look at verse 10, chapter 3, verse 10. Sorry to be intent now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places italicized by the known, by the Church, the manifold wisdom of God. Chapter 6, verse 12. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the ruler of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high or in the heavens. So you have Paul with that emphasis. Look at Ephesians 4:27. Be ye angry and sin now. Let not your son. I'm reading verse 26. Let not the sun go down upon your rock, neither give place to the devil. The word devil there is a slanderer, somebody who slanders.

Okay, now if you look at the Old Testament language and you discover that the word slander was used In Kanesbania, numbers 13 to 14. It says, you have got an evil report. Devil, evil report. So someone who slanders who. Who speaks down on God's word. That's what he's saying here. And that's not as invisible as we think. So Paul's letters, he says, give no place to the devil or to the slanderer. Whereas in other books of Paul, he mentions these structured beings or structured things. Colossians 1, 15, 16, which we are going to see again. We saw it last week where he says 16. For by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible or invisible. Notice that narrative. Heaven and earth, visible, invisible. Thrones, dominions, principalities, powers. All things were created by him and for him.

Colossians 2:8. In teaching about philosophies, he says, beware of any man's power through philosophy and vain deceit through after the transition of men, the rudiments of the world. And we said that word rudiments with elemental hope. You can remember elemental spirits. So Version says, elemental powers of the. Of the world. Colossians 2:15. It says, in the death of Jesus, he spoiled principalities and powers and made a shoe of them openly triumphing over them in it. So which means again parenthesis, that the New Testament of God does not deny that world. It's a worldview of the New Testament itself. Look at Galatians 1, verse 3 to 4. Grace be to you, and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us, for our saints, that he might deliver us from this present evil world. This present evil age.

I always say world activities, right? Order of things. Yeah. Galatians 4:3 were in bondage under the elemental spirits of the world. We've seen that last week. So which means that there was something more natural, there was something supernatural. They were in bondage under the elemental spirits of the world. Look at verse eight. You knew not God, you did service to them, which by nature are no gods. But now, after you have known God, or rather known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggary elements. Elemental spirit again, where unto you desire again to be in bondage. A version says, impoverished elemental powers. First Corinthians 2, Eight, nine. This is the death of Jesus. But let's even start from six.

Howbeit when we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not wisdom of this world, nor prince of this world, that come to nothing. Princes of this world. Then he said in verse eight, which none of the princes of this world knew, even though they will not provide a lot of knowing rulers of this age. So when we say age is activities of this world, don't forget I earlier said that when the new personal writer talks about world age, he's talking about order of things, right? The way things are set, not the planet. Good. First Corinthians 15. And verse 24, There comes the end. When shall be the kingdom to God, even the Father? When you have put down all rule and authority and power. For he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet.

Last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Romans 8, 38 and 39. I guess tomorrow morning at the first second service, we'll talk about the last days issue again. The last days has to do with the resurrection of Jesus. Really? The last days. Eschaton. Romans 8, verse 38. I am persuaded, Paul, that now when he says in verse 37, in all this, we are more than conquerors to him that has loved us. For I'm persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers. He talks about that. And the believer's identification. Second. Shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. First Thessalonians 2:18. Wherefore we have come unto you, even I fall once again. But Satan.

Now, Satan is slanderer, right? Satan is not slanderer. I just greeted you. Satan is diabolos. He's an accuser, an opponent. Even though the same person has the honor for the two. But they mean two different things. Devil is slanderer. And that's taken from the Old Testament concept of evil, which means to slander, to be against as well, but much more. It's to twist something. All right, but when you talk about Satanas, it's a diabolical, you know, opponent, somebody who opposes you. That's why I use Satan for the church. I devote it to Satan. Someone who opposes you, he will use devil for the church because devil is play, evil is somebody who lies. Satan is not somebody who lies, but devil is someone who lies, who twist the truth. But that devil. But Satan is an opponent. And you and I can be Satan.

That kind of stuff first. Thessalonians 3:5 for this course, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to know your faith, lest by some means the tempter has tempted you. The tempter, someone who tests you, has tempted you. And our labor be in vain. Romans 16:20. So how loud the New Testament author about the supernatural world is? Very loud. Romans 16:20 the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet. Shock me now. Under whose feet? The church in Rome. Okay. Which has to be fact specific. That means there was something that he was talking about. Obviously there was the Roman government, the Roman authorities. There were different issues. The God of priests would rule. That's interesting, I thought stands under our feet. And Paul applies it to a particular situation here.

So the New Testament author in this instance, Paul brings to bear as much of the supernatural world content of the Old Testament writer. Look at John 12 in the statements of Jesus. For those who try to play down the death of Jesus as an offering for God. And that's the pathway because they want to downplay his financial world. You Jesus was. So the story is just that God was angry and he needed pacifying. So he now. Something like that. So I know we've done this study over and over again. So that brings blood and that's all. And there is no heavenly fact to what happened. But the real deal was more heavenly than an earthly vocation. That's why it's okay. But the blood of Jesus. But then we start talking about the blood of Jesus is a physical element. I mean, it's a liquid.

It couldn't have been spirit. And blood cannot inherit the kingdom. And they said no. So when I like the person, I still like the person. Said, well, the death of Jesus is a physical death, but seen as spiritual. I said, that means you are seen in all the types and shadows. It was seen by who? By God? I said no. So I told the person, I said, the problem is you don't like Kenyon, right? I know you don't like Kenneth Hagin. I mean, it works that way. And Kemyon and Kenneth Hagin said that there was more to the death of Jesus than the cross. You don't like it. And because we have sung a lot about the cross. Oh, the cross, oh, the cross. It is finished. All that song again. When you said it is done, you thought, we think like that.

It's not as one. It is finished. And we look at that. John 19:30. It is finished. On the cross. It is finished. How so where did he. Where was he exalted? Far above all Praise Valley, Power Mike and Dubai. That cannot be in the Sanhedrin now. So we need to really, you know, don't play down on that. You may not have loved some faith teachers who went into money gospel, but hey, don't be that way. The truth is that the supernatural world is more prominent in the death of Jesus than what men saw. And what Carol at capture said. There was what men saw and there was what God saw. There was what the devil saw, you know, and what men saw is relatively not as I would say anyway. It's not as. I don't want to say something that may be loose.

It's not as strong. Allow me here. Like what God saw and what the devil saw. What did the devil see on the day of Pentecost? Because there is invisible and the non visible. In John 12:31. Now is the world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. Look at how Joseph experienced his death. Now shall the prince of this world the word archon A R C H O N. Where you have among the principalities power might the same word now shall be. You can say principality of this world. Now world, the universe or activities. Thank you. Look at 42. Nevertheless, among the chief rulers. So I remember one of these guys, the guy was trying to say, well, that what Jesus was referring to here were the rulers of the Pharisees. Now shall the prince of the Lord be cast out.

Because they try to play down devil in their theology. It's really ridiculous. There's no deception as deceiving as that. So now look at the play of words. There is a visible here and there's the word invisible. What men will see with synagogue rulers. Jesus spoke about the prince of the world is judged. This talks about princes or rulers. The same Greek word akon in John 16. And verse 11. Because the prince of this world is judged. The prince of this world is judged. Now when I say the prince of this world, judge not referring to your hometown. This is specific These activities and you find unbelief, hatred. Right? Those are the things he's talking about. It's also the prince of this world that every local government know these activities is judged. Luke 22, Verse 23.

When I was dwelling with you in the temple, you stretched forth no hands against me. But this is your hour. And the power of darkness. The word power. There. Now let's go back again. The word power here is Exousias. Exousia. Again you see that in Ephesians 1:19 21. But look at 52. Then look at the play. Then Jesus said to the chief priests and the captains of the temple, the word there is like a commander of the temple. And he uses the Greek word strategieus. Same word you're going to see in Paul's writing strategy. T E G I O S so there was a mansight. Are you here? There was visible and there was the invisible aspect.

So even though the four gospels captured the eyewitness account in the words of Jesus and the words of those who related with him, you saw the supernatural world in the. In the four Gospels. Romans 13. So you can see that the invisible and the visible are connected. Right? Romans 13. Then every soul be subject to the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be ordained of God. Now he says in verse. We looked at this last week too. Whoever therefore resists the power, resist the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror for good works to good works, but to evil without them not be afraid of the power. Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same.

For he is a minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. For he bears not his fault in vain. For he is a minister of God. Again, in case you thought the first one was translation error, he calls the government official a revenger to execute wrath upon him that does evil. So Paul uses the same word, the word Exousias. Replace it. The word Akon and the word Dunamis, Exousias, Akon and Dunamis. So which means that we have a natural side to the spiritual authorities, and we have a spiritual, supernatural side to the natural authorities. So we therefore have the visible and the invisible, heaven and earth, material and spiritual to the things written in Scripture.

So just like the writer of Hebrews says, Hebrews 11:3 substance of things, evidence of sins, things by faith we understand that the worlds were written, were framed by the word of God. That the things that were seen were not made of things which appear. Can we therefore, by what we are reading, say that same context is Paul in the New Testament? Huh? Okay, so we have the invisible and the visible, right? There's what men will see. There's what God saw. I'll change that phrase someday. But for now it's gonna. It's better explained because God doesn't see things. God. God is good. You know, what the devil saw, you know, which is really to describe a supernatural world to the natural world. Let's go Back to Colossians 1. So the New Testament authorities worldview, because nothing has changed.

So the supernatural world is not a culture, it's not a human. It is how God made the world. And the psalmist says he placed the earth upon the seas. And we know those seas, the seas from Genesis refers to the supernatural world. Colossians 1 again. And 16, Where Paul describes the visible and the invisible. The ones we can see by eyes and the ones we can't see. So let's pick them out properly. The word archon A ich O. We've done this before. Just to repeat, from the word A R C H E We have also arcaton. Same thing. It means somebody needs the rule of authority and power. Who has influence in the natural world is used for kings, officials, even officials of the temple priests.

Okay, remember in Acts 2, sorry, Acts 4, when Peter and John came back and told the company what they had said. And they looked at their voice in one accord and said, you made heaven and earth and said that the mouth of the holy servant David that why did the Ethan rage? And they called the chief priests the Ethan and the rulers, the kings and the rulers. They called the chief priests the rulers. So you now wonder how but the right. The psalmist in Psalm 2 was also referring to both the natural and the supernatural. So whilst in the natural they didn't look like that, like the. Even in the supernatural world, they actually represented the nations the evening. So look at this. The word exousia is a structure of orderliness, a structure of or power. Exhusia. The word dunamis is influence. Simple.

It can be military, political, social. Remember, let's backtrack a bit. We said anytime people are unified in culture, in thinking, remember that supernatural being is involved. You will always see, will show itself in a social disposition, cultural disposition, theological disposition to religion. For example, the third word Paul uses, Worthronos. We've been here before. A throne Thronos T H R O N O S is a symbol of structural authority, which is a symbol or it speaks of an institution. Somewhere already there is a institution that has been set down thrones. But it says the word dominion. Paul Dominion is the word kuritios, which is kuriotis K U R I O T S which means the spare, let's say where the authority is used. Now, all of these things have both a natural invisible and invisible manifestation.

The easier ones to point out, which we are probably going to look at in a moment, will be natural authority. Right? It's easy. But beyond that, we said anything that will societal influence, religious influence. All right, Cultural influence. Right. Has an invisible structure to it. And that must be clear. I would say one of the things I'll look at that in Genesis 11, that when people are unified under any guise, just know that worship is intended. Worship is not when you bow down. Worship is when you submit to something. Not when you bow down. It's not. You can, you can even bow down to destroy someone. So that's not it. Worship is when you submit to something. So things that are being submitted to. That's why I said years back that we must find out what are today's idols.

We probably are carried away by thinking idols are no longer in the cities because we've left our villages many years ago. No, is what is being submitted today was when I was doing a study on human rights because it's my. When it's a lawyer, that's my. That's really my area. I like. And I did some research. I said, this is worship. I said, what do you want? And sometimes I bother what is your truth? Your truth. Guy said, own your truth. Own your truth. There's another one. He say, self love. You see, believer say self love. Someone wrote one scripture. He said, love your neighbor as yourself. Said, you don't love your neighbor. Don't love your neighbor. I said, come here. Why conk your head? And you call him rabbi? Rabbi all over the place. Go to the text now.

I want to be texting. I said, what is it there? He said, oh. I said, what? Read it now. He said, you must not take vengeance because you were also slaves. He said, why not read the context? This ain't self love. He said of God. Jesus said that? No, Jesus said that, love your neighbor as I've loved. As I've loved. As I've loved you. But that's a higher law. I said, he's saying the same thing. You think Jesus came to upgrade it and say, add this one? No, let's Be careful because those things have a will. And you know something about those things, they will resonate with you. Like new normal. New normal. The new normal. We don't have to gather in a place. And you now look for scripture. God is everywhere.

Jesus told that woman that you don't have to worship in any mountain. Does your church look like mountains? Something that you could just sit down. And people assume that some of us who don't sleep overnight to read the Bible, that is because we are daft. Don't just wake up and get Rema. We don't think. We're researching, we're checking. Even materials that were existing before Nigeria was imagined. They're checking. That's it. That's it. Someone said it was Paul that created the concept of church. Yes. Says because they were in persecution. I said, where did you get that from? He picked it from somewhere. He doesn't know where the person got his own from. You know, the invisible and invisible. Everybody does not know what's pushing them. Well, right now, somebody called me. I said, that thing was really, how didn't you get moved?

But I said, look, me, I know that the Bible and social media can be friends and they can be enemies. Okay? You decide to choose where you want to stay. You, all of you just fell into it. And you know, they were not under pressure. I mean, I can tell, like Jesus, what you are doing is not good. You just sit down somewhere in an air conditioner. I will say bless you. First Corinthians 2. I'm not talking to anybody in particular. Now notice verse eight again, Paul says, at the prince of this world known, verse 8, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Interesting. Were earthly rulers involved in a Christology? Of course they were. Because if you look at the book of Acts 2:23, he said, you have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain.

So Peter talks about wicked hands. Acts 2:23, Acts 3:17. Through ignorance you did it as also your own Ruler. Acts 2:3 17. Acts 4:27. Elo. Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together. That's referring to the four Gospels. Acts 4:27, Acts 5, Verse 30. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you slew and hanged on a tree. Acts 7:52. Just one of whom you have been now the betrayers and murderers. So there was that human account that you guys were involved. Acts 10, Verse 39, whom they slew and hung on a tree. Acts 13, Verse 28. And though they found no cause of death believe yet they desired the Pilate that should be slain. So you can see the human hangul. Well written. Now why is the book of Acts like that?

Saints community do not forget Acts of the Apostles is the book of Luke Part 2. Are you following? So it's the same audience Theophilus. And it will be funny if we are now talking to Theophilus about the prince of this world. Looking at you. Is that me? This is basically the eyewitness account. But in the speech or the words, right. Of the authors or the speakers or anyway those who spoke, you will see that context there. So they say who cruise right? Jesus. The Jews. No, don't say the Jews. I take that back. Certain Jews. That is quite anti Semitic. Certain Jews. The Jews, Israel, not Israel. Who wrote the epistles? Are they not Jews? Who are the person who took the gospels are not Jews. So it would be very funny to say the Jews did this.

And that has led to a lot of unnecessary wars. I know the fact there was somebody who said was going to sue Israel for killing. Jesus says going to court, you know, that's the visible part of the invisible. Like I said. Now there's nowhere now as we know that rulers and conspiracies as well rulers were used for ethnic authorities. But you cannot call them rulers of the age by using rulers of this world. The New Testament writer is pointing to the invisible part of those activities. That's why that Luke 22:53 comes to mind. This is your. This is your hour and the power of darkness. So you can't you when he says at the fruit of this world they will not acquire law of glory. Is he talking about the earthly rulers? No, he's talking about the supernatural world.

But the manifestation is with the earthly rulers. That's why Jesus had princes, all right. Rulers of the temple, rulers of the government. But he was talking about the ruler of this age. That is behind the activities. There was an accord of these activities. Now let's. Before we get to the Old Testament, we are going to Old Testament. But look at Isaiah 14. Before we go to the Old Testament, let me show you something very quickly. In Isaiah 14, if you start reading, you know, Isaiah was talking about earthly king. That is very easy to see. And this usually becomes a problem. Those who interpret scriptures and ignore the supernatural world context will always falter here. The truth is there was a government, right, that he was talking about. Then he says in verse 12, how are they falling from heaven?

Look at the context now. Heaven Is supernatural. O Lucifer, son of the morning, how thou come down to the ground and did weaken the nations. For thou art said in thy heart. I will ascend to heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of conversion in the sight of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the cloud. I will be like the Most High. Most High. Is that. You know that most high language? Aha, good. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell to the sides of the peak. They that see thee shall now look upon thee and consider. Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms?

The man that made the world as a wilderness and destroyed the cities thereof, that opened up the house of his providence? All the kingdom, nations, even of them lie in glory. Then he's talking about a man. But he's not talking about supernatural world. The same way that if you say it's Pilate and Cephas, you are right, but there is the invisible world. So when he got to that place, I said, upon this rock I'll build my church. And it was referring to the supernatural world. That's the context, that's the main context of his death, burial and resurrection. That's why there's a huge debate the church world. What happened in the three days, it's unimaginable.

But what I laugh at is that if Jesus could leave himself to the hands of natural rulers to kill him, what is now the sheer, I don't know, anxiety that supernatural forces had the same right. The moment he did that to Caiphas and to Pilate, he surrendered himself also paths. Same thing. Because that is the only way you can explain what happened when he died. Where did he go to? It was just somewhere. Someone said he's in grave. Which grave? You mean he was right in the cemetery? No, he left, but somehow. Where? Someone said he went to the Father for some time. For what? You know, he Just because they want to deny that there were spiritual forces at work. Calm down. That is why we. We are just being arrogant one and we're just being stupid.

You know, arrogance and stupidity in the same sentence. Heavy to deny what is very obvious. First Corinthians 15. Can we call Pilate the ruler of this age? No capers, no right. But were there earthly thrones? Yes, but there was an invisible throne. Are you here first Corinthians 15 and 24, 25, 26. He says he must wait till the enemies. Now look at. He said he put down all authority and Power then now said, the last enemy is death. For he had put all things under his 327. So if he has included death in the things that he took care of, Those are Hebrews 2:14 and 15, then there is more to the death of Jesus than what the eyes could see. Look at the word destroy. The word destroy. There is the word Cartageo K A T A R G. We've done this before.

It doesn't mean to make. To exist, not exist, need to neutralize. To neutralize. First Corinthians 1:28, the same book. To bring to nothing the things that are to bring to nothing. It means to efficient. 2:15, 2 Means to annul the effect. Romans 4:14, Carthage. So it means, for example, to upstage. Not to mean to cease to exist, to neutralize, to disempower. Romans 8. So that you will know again where the area and personnel death in your life. Nor angels, principalities, powers, things, present, things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any creature. So he's talking about creatures that are able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus, our Lord. Again, the word archon and dunamis are repeated here. So we therefore are dealing with a hostile supernatural world, even in the Christian experience.

So whilst we have the manifestation of earthly authorities and earthly beings the same way he says that those who are in disobedience are ruled by the prince of power of the air. Ephesians 2:1:2. You say which one? No, this guy is a nice guy. He said no. There's the invisible part of what he's doing. And the believer must come to that. You can't disbelieve what is true. That's denial. So there's a supernatural world to what we see. Particularly we have said, where it unites people in culture, in disobedience, in philosophy, then there must be an invisible part. Because what invisible beings do, rebellious, invisible, they look for worship. And worship is not singing, it's submission. Submission to a thinking. It can also be disguised as Bible study, right, Bible study, like one guy was doing.

I told him, I said, where this study is going, you're going to be in trouble. He said no, that he feels that you know you should. I said no, you don't study from doubts, you study from faith. This way I didn't answer from faith. I believe God. So you're going to be in trouble. Because we also know that the Prince of Paul there uses knowledge. Uses knowledge and one of the traits of the prison thou we see in the Scripture is lack of control. And that lack of control is the control. That lack of control is the control because you are being controlled by not having control. Are you here? All right, let's go to the Old Testament. We see this prominent. Go to Exodus. I'll put the rest later. Exodus 12. Okay, let's backtrack a bit. Jerusalem, chapter four.

Move as fast as possible. And verse 18 or 19. When you lift up your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun, moon and stars, and the host of heaven shall be driven to worship them and serve them. Would the Lord thy God has not divided unto all the nations under the whole heaven. So he says, the nations are divided to beings. Joel 32 and verse 8. When the most High divided, He says here again to the nations their inheritance. When he separated the sons of Adam, he said, the bounds of people according to the number of the sons of God. Done that study over and over again. So rebellion. Go to Isaiah 14 against God and his Word is an institutionalized action and is from an invisible world.

That was saying on Sunday that to start to address sin from just a sociological point of view, no sin is osny supernatural. It will have a natural expression, but is forced supernatural. Psalm 82, verse 1. God stands in the conviction of the mighty. He judges among the gods. How long will you unjustly and accept the presence of the wicked? You see, the tricky part of this psalm is that you can use it for human judges. You can. And it just bottles what we have said earlier, that it's the visible and the invisible they are using for human authority. How would you judge the nations unjustly? Defend the poor, the fatherless, do justice to the afflicted and needy. Deliver the poor and needy. Get them say, okay, this is about ethnic things. The rule of five. They know not, neither will they understand.

They walk on in darkness. That takes you back to Genesis 1. All the foundations of the earth are out of the course. I have said, you are gods. All of you are children of the Most High. That is host of heaven language. But you shall die like men and fall like one of the princes. Now you can't be saying you can die like men, like. Like talking to a ruler. Of course the man would die like one. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for thou shalt hate us nations. So this combines what we have been saying earlier. There is a visible. Are you here an invisible part of this conversation? Look at Exodus 12. This is the more reason why as individuals, the believers can go into the political world as individuals.

But every attempt to create A political structure from the church will be backsliding. I was talking to a pastor yesterday and we said, look, I was looking at why did the church, particularly Nigeria, Africa, even America. Why are they so engrossed about who is the ruler of their country? Why are they engrossed? Number one is a democracy. And the person answered very well. And that got me thinking. I knew this, but the way he said it's their theology is the way they think and that has to be corrected by the world. Just like John 16 says they will think that they are serving God by killing you. It's a thinking pattern because this structure did not come from God. So trying to own it at any point is all disaster. Can believers go, oh yeah, as individuals.

And that's what we put in our book Faith, Christian faith and Politics. Yes, but we the church must the only we the church is to reach the world with the gospel. That's the only thing the church can do together. Because we have different when it comes to all the ideas, it will be different. It's of the world and that is what it is. Same way we can't have a common profession. Definitely not a common club. That's obvious. You know, there are some clubs came from Genesis 11. Left it out anyway, you know, you can't have that. You can't. So it's a wrong ideology. But this is clear that there's a manifestation in the natural world of the supernatural world. Exodus 12:12. Our pass through the line of Egypt.

This night has smiled all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast, against all the gods of Egypt. All the gods of Egypt will I execute the judgment. I am the Lord. Exodus 15:11. So the concept of that firstborn was idol worship. The firstborn there is idol worship. Exodus 15:11 who is like unto thee, O Lord, amongst the gods. Notice how this song of Moses came. Verse 1. I will sing to the Lord gloriously. For the horse and his rider are keep thrown to the sea. Singular. Blessed is my strength and song is because my salvation is my God. I prepare him and appreciation of my Father's God. And I will exalt him. The Lord is a man of war. The Lord is his name. Pharaoh's chariots and his host as he cast into the sea.

His chosen captains also are drowned in the sea. The depths have covered them. They are drunk. They are sunk into the bottom as a stone. The right hand, O Lord, is become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, as dust in pieces the enemy. The greatness of Thy Excellency has thrown them that rose against thee, that sent forth thy wrath which consumed them as stubble the vast were nostrils, the waters were gathered together, the flood stood upright as a heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea. The enemy said, I will pursue, I will think, I will divide. The squall, my Lord shall satisfy upon them. So there's a singular person. Are you following? And there is also the plural. But he says, thou this blow, that wind, the sea cover them, the sunkers lead in the mighty waters.

Who is like unto you? God, O Lord, amongst the gods, who is like me. So there was the supernatural aspect, just like those wars. Also there's a spiritual warfare in the context of the wars. And just like this instance, we had Pharaoh, all right, and we had the gods of Egypt. So there's a context to, you know, the wars. We'll probably view the others later. So we have the visible and the invisible. That's something that shouldn't be lost. We have the visible and we have the invisible. So the earthly rulers. And let me ask this caveat very seriously. That is not just government that we're referring to. We're referring generally to every spheres of influence, generally. I think I mentioned this last time when the guy said I was going to entertainment. I said, entertainment is not of the devil, right. At all.

It can be good music, good show of talents and art. It can be right. But you must be someone whose mind is renewed. I remember a friend of mine told me this. This was in the university. He went into politics. He went. Went from ministry into politics. I abandoned ministry. So he now said to me, he said, but let me quote him here. He said, look, if you're born again, he's not well, born again. And it's somebody I respect a lot. He said, when he said this, science of order, not believe. He said, you must really believe. He said, it will totally make you think differently. Should I agree that day that to go into such echelons, or let's say dimensions of where people are looking for power and influence, your mind must be sufficiently renewed. So that's why the believer must.

The first of all is supposed to grow, spiritually speaking. You can't think like the world thinks, even though it's the same thing you are doing, you can't think like the world thinks, because nothing came from the devil. Nothing. But is there a perversion? Yes. Is there a slander? Yes. Is there an opposition? Yes. It's at that point that we get involved. So we cannot. Oh, we are not this and this is why a lot of guys were thinking God's way out of it is to pack people out and rapture them. No, that's the way out is that we're going to engage it, right? Engage it. And we engage it with. With soundness of mind. Engagement with soundness of mind is now, today.

Now you can watch a Christian on TV in those days the moment they see you acting is a Christian watching it though they say is this guy really. And you're watching it. Is this guy really a Christian? He started acting on TV and you are watching it. It's not easy for us to watch it and say and you know, you look at it and say okay, when I say I wrote a script, he said, I said it's not a Christian movie. I said why? I said I just write it. I just don't believe you should be doing movies for the word of God. But it's not wrong for people do it. So can I do better movies? But you must engage well, right? Engage it properly.

That's why having a church and being taught the word of God is a prerequisite to engaging the world. Well, this earth does not belong to the devil. Is that clear? The system could be manipulated by the devil and he only does it through men. There is no greater manifestation of the devil like through men. But we know that we have the visible and the non visible. So a man who is spiritual is the one who. So you don't look at things anyhow. That's why we say when we talk about Satan plays a long game. People think that you are just being superstitious. When I said this, I'm going to repeat it. You know me and your past. When I said it, I said that protest that took place in 2020 I said as sincere as emotives were, it was taking over.

I and this is not a seed of God. No, Nigeria has to change. A friend of mine was in church so he prophesied the year before because we are carried away. Anything happen on social media they say yeah, this is what's going on. I saw people marking marching during riots and say they are praying in tongues thinking over Nigeria, you better interpret it. So don't worry, that's how the friend of mine was prophetic. He did his own prophecy failure. So the people in the ministry were so eager they just took their prophecy and added it to the nationwide rebellion. I said what's up? I said remove it now. I said the end result. You look like I need to Result, he removed it. I said, go and read the Bible. I put an article out.

Somebody came up and told me, I know it's the Bible. Is this verse of teaching the Bible said, but I will say we have to stick to the scriptures of Diamond. I say, I have to. And you have to. We may not like it. You may not like it. No. Someone told me, said, well, no, I'm going. If the church, I will abandon Christianity. I said, no, we have more people. If you abandon it, what are. Who are you punishing? Think God will start crying you abandon Christianity? I said, no. So many times we are not sensitive. We just feel like, no, that's what. And particularly this time, that you are just in one place and like 1 million people are saying the same thing. So you think that's God. Everybody's saying everybody now. Everybody. This person, this person, that person.

That's how people run mad. Your anchor is the word of God. Is that clear? Aha. And never I told someone, I said, there is nowhere you can assert God in rebellion. How do you know the thing and I'll quote on this one for this session. When they said, they brought you as the pilot, this will amuse you. They could not say he did anything wrong. Listen very well. You know, he had other guys known factors that they crucified with him. Their own was that they were insurrectionists. They spoke against the Lula, they had to lie against Jesus eventually. What did they choose? That he said, he's the son of God, I can't say anything. They said, well, in our own laws, this is blasphemy. So I said, okay. He said he washed his hands.

Do you know that Luke was able to say that was the same case with Paul? That there was. You could not say that he's rosing the people that when he spoke, people were now moving against government? No, nothing at all. This should make us think and think very well. I just said something. I'm going to finish on this. Don't say, what about Moses? Moses, we just saw it. It was a supernatural warfare. It was clear. And if you want to do Moses own, let us see plagues, right? They didn't go on the street. I will carry placard. They took on the gods of the land. When you see signs, somebody will tell you to go. Not when you are writing article and do a retreat. Retreat aggressively. No. What did Elijah do? He said, if Yahweh is gone, let us settle the matter.

It's not. They didn't go to the Senate House or Senate to go and burn it down. That was not what they did though. If you are going to take that route, it's by prayer, right? And fasting. But you can't pray and fast and bring out placard, right? The next is you are going to preach the gospel. They are going to heal the sick. This is an inconvenient truth, right? Because you are preachers. I was in law school. As I said this was somebody. He said, I didn't want to hear it for years. I told him, I said, martin Luther King. I said, well, did he tell you that was God's call upon his life? Someone said, what do you mean? Are you saying that he cannot. Human rights.

I said, if you go to America today, the racism between blacks and others is worse than white and black. I said, racism is of the heart. It can only be cured with the gospel. And not just the gospel to live by it. Because you can say the world no more. And in your heart is me and you no more. That's the way you can get it. But if we want to use the world's methods, we'll get what the world wants. I'll see you in 10 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/