He said, from heaven. That's most of them knighted. I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. And I was talking about casting out of demons. So casting out of demons is an exercise over territories. Look at Mark 5 commentary. I will read. Verse 7. What have I to do with thee, Jesus? Now let me pause and say this. This book was written way after the epistles were written. So if a face is retained here, it means that the New Testament audience, right, were reading the same books which we call the Old Testament. So watch this. I mean, reading from the Old Testament, I meant to say, what have I to do with thee, Jesus, son of the most high God, I adore thee, by God that thou torment me not. Okay, now pay attention to these details.

Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit. He said, what is your name? My name is legion. Legion means 6000. Okay. My name is Legion. And you see, Jesus used it in Matthew 12 and verse 40. Legion of Angels. Matthew 26:53. My Father can send a legion of angels. That structure is a, an army structure. Legion is more Latin. L E G I O N L, E G U N. It's a Roman regiment. That is, it has structure. So this phrase is like saying Prince Price is for might. And. Are you following? Are you following this? Now the question is, he is one single Person. Well, let's see something. Just pay attention. You see something here. You know, this is obviously the first time that Jesus will have that kind of conversation. Now look at this. Or the only time. What's your name?

What's your name now? Name? Is it title or description? Can we not say Presence? Good Legion. That means for we've ended. So that's presence. You besought him, but they will not send him out of. Look at them. Pay attention. He besought him much that he would not send him out of where? Out of the country. So they were more about where the territory that it was about that person. Now they were near onto the mountain, the great head of the swine feeding. And all the devils besought him, saying send us out. His wine just gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out and entered the swine and they ran. And then they were choked in the sea. And were choked in the sea.

And when they had fed swine told it in the city, in the country and went out to see what was done. So there is something about the territory that we should pay attention. Now I'm going to read a research that was done about that area. Where's my arrives in it? I'll just click the excerpt for you. Now the first thing is CK Barnett, who wrote the New Testament background, that Testament background to the four gospels says that there's evidence that this place had a lot of magical worship in this period. There was a lot of magic arts in this particular period. Then they look at the narrative. There's a narrative that. Go get there. Before I read this commentary in Mark 4. Follow how Mark done that study. Also in the study book of Mark, just before this, Jesus calmed the storm.

Calming the storm is when it comes to the forces of nature is to show that he is Yahweh. So there's already a background to Mark 5 that calming the storm is not. It is a supernatural occurrence. Because one of the things we said here that one who can calm the sea is one of the names given to Yahweh. So. So by saying Jesus did this in Mark 4, Mark is pointing that this is Yahweh. As a man, I think I've skipped something. Yeah. So now let me read this place for you. Gerasa, which is the real word, is a Transjordan region. This is the background of the New Testament to the east of the Sea of Galilee. A gentile territory. That's why the Most High was used. Gentile territory, typical of the 1st century Greco Roman city. Now Jesus Crossing to this territory.

Go to Mark four. Sorry, Mark 5:1. They came over to the other side of the sea, to the country of the Gadarenes. Let us. I mean, before then he said in 35, let's pass over to the other side. Now that is, let's go to the Gentile territory where other supernatural beings are worshipped. So Jesus was territorial in that speech. Now, the Gentile territory, this is again, the Old Testament, New Testament background was a precursor of the community's own Gentile mission in the region. Which means that Jesus is sending them to a Gentile area. The capital city of Gerasa is 550 miles northeast of Jerusalem. Just lies 550 meters above sea level, is a remote, broad valley just outside the borders of the Jewish community. So the emphasis of this area is known to the audience to describe why Jesus had this encounter.

Now, furthermore, the population of this place is, I mean, was by. Was very prominent. It is known to have the sanctuary of Zeus Olympios sitting on the high ground. So it's a place for heavy idol worship, communal idol worship. Scholars have also said that the worshippers of Zeus Olympias in this place were either Greek settlers or Hellenized Syrians. Mark's audience is familiar with this cult. The demons who addressed Jesus were saying, okay, you know, also had the equivalent of sons of Zeus. So when they were sons of Zeus, by calling sons of the Most High, they are relating with that Old Testament description of the comparison of Yahweh with other idols or other beings. So they knew exactly. The audience knew exactly what Mark was driving at here. Another being worshipped here is called Artemis.

Artmis, a Greek goddess of nature, was equally worshipped in this place. The temple of Artemis is arguably one of the largest or if not the largest in this area and is the high point of much of worship and activity. So much activity in this place was situated around the worship of Artemis. So this, there was an imperial cause in this particular territory. And this is the reason why when, okay, there's one more. The use of tombs here was used for cultic worship. So that fellow in the tomb, you know, it was way beyond just somebody just set it to the cemetery, beat on cemetery or something. It's not the same in that immediate context. What you have there is worship, territorial worship. So, Mark 5, are you here? So that says send us. Do not send us out of the city.

So this was like taking over a territory. We said the gospel is about people, also about what territories, places. This is why when they came back and they saw the guy verse 15 in his right mind. They were afraid. And then they began to pray into the power of their coast. Look at 17. They now said Jesus should leave their area. Why? Those who are in Acts 16, to exchange, they cast out a demon out of the girl who was there. And they immediately said, chase him out of the place. Which means it had to do with the territory. With the territory. And you see, when they say legion, that's the first. That means that particular girl, or call you damself, she carried maybe the cu. Because that's where everybody's concerned. Now, what have you noticed? Sometimes you cast out a demon, just upset.

Has that happened to you before? You never seen that before. You've never seen it before. I said, mike, this guy, or maybe somebody who is, you know, mentally infirm and you cast out a demon and people are just upset. Remember when one of these WCs we had and one of brethren cast out a demon from an insane guy and they had to go and meet the oba of the place. We are sorry for what say no. What's your business? That particular being had the people in hostage. You can't preach the gospel using drama. I said, I mean, that's another host. Yeah, just. Just playing. You think it's about speech? No, it's not. So now they actually changed Jesus out of the place. He said, no, no, you have to leave. And when he was coming to the ship, they.

That the guy was good at 19. Go home to your friends. The guy was the following, said, go home to your friends and tell them right the outer things the Lord had done for thee and had compassion on you. So Mark is pointing to Jesus here as God. He departed and began to publish on Decapolis. How great things Jesus. Are you saying it? The Lord Jesus had done for him and all men did marvel. So most high here deals with the territory. Wasn't just a simple display of casting out one demon and all that. It was the territory itself. So by the use of principality, power, might and dominion by Paul, this concept and narrative is retained by New Testament writers. The world is supernatural. Where we are is supernatural.

We want to enter a cab now and say, let me see the spirit behind this. We're not dealing with that superstition, you know, but that our engagements in this world definitely is supernatural. The weapons of our warfare are not canal second Corinthians 10:3,4 mighty struggle to put our strongholds. Ephesians 6. Taking on the whole armor of God they will withstand the devil in the evil day. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, verse 12. But against precious power might ruler the darkness of this world or this present age. Very clear. So when we are preaching the gospel, we are dealing with territories, we are dealing with people. We're dealing with a host of darkness. That should be clear in our minds. Is that clear? Is that okay? It becomes very strange when the church starts to borrow from the world.

Satan can't cast out Satan, you know, it has to be the weapons of our warfare, which is of the world. So the core of this is that the New Testament. So the New Testament retained the word most high. The use of far above is the most high narrative. Far above. The ancient Israelites will say above other gods. The New Testament audience principalities, power, right might and dominion. So we are meant to exercise our authorities above this all the time. I will say this again then. Firstly, I will take a short. Do not think that we are talking about things in your village. No, we already identified this. That where you have something common. Rebellion can be a common attitude. Because eventually you discover that these supernatural beings actually breed the culture of people. Culture.

Since you have used your used to a habit, a belief system, philosophies, and they are behind it. I'm of view that within we need to start take out. Let me put like this. The use of ethnos, which is nations is no longer just about language. In fact, for many of us here, you can't even speak your native language. If I look at pronunciation is what's the name? Olusegun. So that language has no power over you. So it's now which language do you really speak? What, what. What kind of thinking pattern really? And that. That. That would be informed. That will inform what we are saying now. So you know the use of ethnos. Matthew 28:19 make disciples of all nations. You have ethnos. Then you have Mark 16 going to all the world which is inhabited space.

Why is the gospel particular about all the world and every creature, every ethnos. Which means that we must think territories. Okay? And think. So we said that the concept of culture. Culture is very dynamic. Culture has language habits for some of us. For example, if you are. If you are Igbo and you found yourself living in Kano, it's very likely that you will have imbibed things you are doing there. If I go to your hometown and they almost knock you down, that's not how to do it. You're. Because it's about influence. Culture is not in your DNA. You acquire it by influence, by learning, by association. Okay, so I've Been saying that. Which means that culture really is of influence, more of influence.

The reason why we pick the culture of our parents is because at the initial stage of our lives, those are who we live with. So it's something that you acquire over time. Now, having said that, it means that if the Gospel wants us to affect culture, ethnos, they have the word iron majorly cosmos really. And you are going to every creature. It means that we are retaining that Old Testament context of sacred areas, places, territories. So when in Mark 5 saw it now that when that demon was not one single person. So we can say that what Jesus approached was hosts, right? Am I correct? And notice that conversation that he had with that what is your name? You know, look at that Mark five again, let's say it. What is called of the man? What is your name? This is the first time.

But if you go to the Old Testament, which we are going to see in a moment, it's that conversation that Yahweh has with the host of heaven, that conversion can only take place between sons of God and the Most High. Now, some will call it, I mean, ancient theologians call it the Divine Council theory, which is. They believe that there is a. The Divine Council theory is taken from what you can call, you know, ancient, denser culture. It's not like supposed to be sustained theology. It's just a cultural thing, which is ancient fact in religions. There's usually a structure, somebody who is above. So you have that conversation. So what is your name? That Job one? Have you seen my servant Job? That's a conversation in the heavenlies. So this conversation that Jesus has here confirms further that this is Yahweh.

That conversation confirmed it. So it's about territories. This is why Jesus came to Jerusalem. And he says, Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, unto the uttermost parts of the earth, because the promised land theology is start from here and reach the world. So the background therefore of the Old Testament, theologically speaking, is retained here. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/