Let's pray. Father. Name of your son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for a time of study in your word. Thank you for the light you always bring our way. We ask this morning that you flood our understanding with yours, that this morning questions are answered, doubts totally unraveled, things that look mysterious are resolved in our minds and together as a church. Jesus Christ, your son, even as it sees us in him, in this thought, he is glorified. And as we edified, built up with perfect and precise understanding by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside those who hear us and the body of Christ. Amen. Good morning again. Let's move as quickly as possible. Second Timothy 3 and 15. Still seated on high. So on Saturday. Oh, sorry. Friday and Saturday, we will be examining.

I'm not sure whether we should start that quickly, but if I can. If I look at the horizon and it's fine, I think we just start talking about idols. It's an area I would love us to really understand. So now we talk about idols before, as you are speaking from the village. But I mean, look at how much of the New Testament talks about idols. Let's just run through that. So you know, why Romans 1 of us, from verse 20 through to 28, talks about, you know, being given over to worship the creature rather than the Creator. Romans 1, about 10 texts there will be from verse 29 to verse 32, Romans 2, Thou that abhorrent idols. Verse 22, find concept of idols. First Corinthians. That's a whole lot.

First Corinthians 12, 1 3, First Corinthians 8 and First Corinthians 10, you have conversations about idol. Second Corinthians 6, temple of idols. That's what he calls the unsaved. In verse 16, they look at Galatians. We'll touch that today a bit. Galatians 4, Verse 8. When you knew not God, you did service unto them, which by nature are no gods. Okay, Galatians 5 and 20. Idolatries work on the flesh. Then you have Ephesians. Well, Ephesians 6, really, when you talk about where Paul talks about flesh and blood pressure. We'll go through that also 6, 12 Colossians might not be direct, but Colossians 2. And 18 through to 23 talks about, you know, popping your mind into the unseen. First Thessalonians. One minute. Okay. First Thessalonians 1. Sorry. And verse 9, how you turn to God from idols to serve the living God. Right?

Then you have most of the book of Hebrews. We See that later as well. First John 5, the very last text. First John 5, 21. Little children keep yourselves from idols, an instruction that Paul gave in 1st Corinthians 10 and 14. Flee from idolatry. So if you don't know what is idolatry and idols, and you think it's just a concept from the village, then there's an area of God's word you are totally ignorant about and it's too overwhelming not to understand it. And it's an Old Testament explanation where we understand what are those. So that's why we're going to look at it. Second Timothy three, quick. And verse 15. Say 15 again. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God spoke table for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness.

And the text here is directly referring to the Old Testament text. I'm just going to repeat some things we said the last time, which is Genesis, to Malachi. We said they have to be studying together. And like I said yesterday in the service that there's an assumption that the Old Testament was about the prophecies of Jesus. So, and I mentioned that, you know, we've done these studies when it says Christ died for our sins According to scriptures, 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4 was buried from the according to scriptures. That is not talking about prophecies. We must learn to read scriptures in the patterns. The patterns are prophecies. We call it nonverbal prophecies. Things you can see, and that's why it's intelligently seen. And there are very few times you would see the prophecy about Jesus on the lips of Old Testament prophets.

It's almost a rare occurrence. It's not as frequent as people assume. In fact, in proper studies, you discover that some prophecies are really not directly about Jesus. And like we said in Luke 24, why did he have to interpret? Why would you interpret if something is direct and it says, thus saith the Lord, a man will come and die for our sins. And. And then God will come. No, let's say God said, the Lord, I, the Lord will become a man. When I become a man, then I'll die for your sins. When I die for your sins and I'll be buried, and then when I'm married Sunday, I'll rise from there, then I'll build my church and the gates of Russia. And then why would the prince of this world not know it?

Like I mentioned the church yesterday, if that was as clear as we think, then Satan would just have given the devil. Okay, when I say, Satan now. You know what I'm talking about, right? I think we want something about that. That somebody eventually assumed that status over time by revelation. No, progressive revelation. Somebody now assumed it, and then he goes like, oh, guys, don't touch that guy. Touch not my anointed. You know, that's what Satan would have told all the demons. Touch not my anointed, do my prophet no harm. You wouldn't have gone ahead to kill that kind of person. In fact, eventually they disobeyed him and got him on the cross. Rather than vinegar, they give. They are giving him alive and say, you know, just stay alive. Okay?

You know, but the point really was Paul says, as the prince of this world known it first Corinthians 2. Eight, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. So the prophecies of Jesus are within the patterns. He assumed it. He assumed things. The key issue was man. So in Genesis 3:16, when he said, the seed of the woman will bruise the head of the serpent. It's not directly Jesus, as we sometimes imagine. No, the seed of the woman. Now Eve, in an error, felt it was the firstborn, just like Abraham, Isaac, and even Jacob. Maybe Jacob, maybe not Jacob totally, but Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. We have the firstborn thing. So Eve also had the same assumptions, you know, and she thought it was Cain. So. But eventually she saw it was Abel, the seed whom Cain slew.

Now, if Cain slew that seed and it eventually amounts to talking about Jesus, he was also slain. Okay, Was also slain. And that's why some people do. I don't agree with that interpretation. They say the lamb slain from the world was Cain. I mean, so Abel, that is looking at that, Luke 11, from Abel to Zechariah, you know. No, that's not true. Abel at one point was. Sometimes was called lamb. Okay, but. But I think the idea is to see that the method of which the seed of the serpent works is the same. So it goes after the anointed, goes after the chosen, goes after the one that, you know, God is using to bless the nations, and he goes after. So that's the seed of the woman.

Now, eventually it points to Jesus because Jesus became a man, not because it was directly to Jesus. So I told you yesterday, service, that the game changer was God becoming a man. So he assumes, you know, all those narratives, you know, about death and the sufferings of the anointed, which is Christ. So it's looking at the patterns. And I mentioned also, maybe I should say this again, that, you know, God seemed To work with people who are very discreet. Because he's also discreet. Very, very discreet people. I mean, somebody was saying who was in service yesterday? And you practically. I mean, it was a couple. This is director. And I said, look, God works with people that are very discreet. That when he was guru rescue Israel from Egypt, there was a man there and he just required. He's not going to say anything.

And there's a man who was raised in the house of Pharaoh Moses. He was raised for 40 years and that was the bomb. And we had people that doesn't say anything about it. You know, Moses was discovered. Not that somebody was giving a cheese. Miriam was selling her best tea or her husband and say, there's something I will have told you know, that guy is my brother. This is, you know, I cannot hide anything from you. In marriage counseling they said we must tell ourselves everything. That Moses, the daughter, the son of Gila, I raised him. I was saying, wow, I should fear you quiet. Until it was discovered. We can go on and on how God uses people and how you look at Joseph, for example. If you are told Jacob that Joseph is alive Egypt. But I have a plan. Which plan?

The man will have gone to Egypt first flight and say, where is my son? You know? And you know, back and forth, back and forth. They go back to their home country. Then when the farming comes, they'll go back to Egypt to go and look for corn. And they'll say, what is happening when you are the one that opens your mouth to look for your son? So many times there's a discretion part. Just like Abel. I mean, I say Abel, Joseph and Mary were, you know, he just kept quiet. The incarnation wasn't said wasn't. I mean, for. I mean Arab not to have known what he said was the incarnation must have come up later. Oh, that's the God that became a man, you know, come up later. So it shows that we need to take care of the enemy.

There's a lot of wisdom being left by the spirit. This is just part color living. I've taught you this over time anyway, just. Just open your mouth. Anything, any mainstay. WhatsApp status. Anything. WhatsApp status, guys, you know what? That's how my career. WhatsApp status, guys. Now are they supposed to help you do something? Oh, guys, you know, WhatsApp status. And this is all you Snapchat or TikTok, you know. But the point is, I mean it shows how naturally the prophecies about Jesus were hidden in stories not hidden from us, but for us. As Paul was saying, First Corinthians 2, 7, you know, and it's a high point of the ministry. Just, just look at John 16, 13, I have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. I mean, look at that kind of statement.

This is God as the pastor, you cannot bear them now in Hebrews five of whom have many things to say, but seeing a doll of earrings, point is, he didn't say them. 2 Corinthians 12, Paul says, some things are hard for a man to alter. You know, there are things that you see that there's discretion in the ministry. There's discretion. Discussion of walking with God. So you also think that God just called the prophet, said, you know what, Go and announce to the world, going home, become a man. He'll be born in the womb of Mary. This one will happen. This, no. So the prophecies about Jesus are largely in patterns, largely in patent, much importance. When he says, for he wrote of me in John 5, 46 and 47, he's not saying that Moses said Jesus.

No, it's the fact that Yahweh we're going to see that circle, that Yahweh is the person talking to you. It's going to before him. Now. What are you talking about? I mean, I mean, and you know, I've said to you too that Satan is usually limited by man's knowledge. You notice that in the patterns of Scripture is by man's knowledge. God doesn't resist him. Hey, guy, come on, we're going to do this. It's man's knowledge. So the promises about Jesus, you know, are not direct statements. Doors. Okay, I caught the yesterday God said Lord moments. No, they are not. Many of them are not. They are just things you watch in patterns. Something I've seen about God. He knows how to hide things in light. There will be light like this, but darkness cannot comprehend it. He knows how to hide it.