Third, 3, 16. Quickly. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. Spoke to for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. So our question remains, does the New Testament writer retain the content of the Old Testament? Of course. Not the culture. And that's why there's a fight with Judaism. Not the culture. Okay. However, not even the lingua, the linguistics, because it uses Greek. They use Imrun, ancient Nestan language, Osborne language. But we cannot get to theology without crossing those barriers, since that's what God inspired and used. But theological context, does it stay in the New Testament Author? Yes, in the sense of the use of spirit. Pneuma. Many times. The use of Theos. Many times. Okay. Shows you that there is a context. I guess tomorrow or Monday we'll look at the word in Him.

I believe many versions have done injustice to that word in him. It is more corporate than individual. It has done many injustices, more injustice. That phrase in him. So you have this. Does it retain it? It does. For example, John 2:11, talking about signs. John talked about signs. Semayon S E M I E O n from the Hebrew oth O T H. The first use of sign is in the host of heaven. Genesis 1:14, 15. Signs for the day, the night, and all of that. And then you have also in the Exodus, signs of the Exodus. What Moses did was signs. So by using signs in Exodus, the word, same word oath. Moses is lending credence to Genesis that this is an heavenly concept. Signs. Signs would mean all the signs in Egypt were supernatural. That is host of heaven issues.

What we have in Egypt. And a John should retain that by using signs. John 20. Just read that quickly. John 20. I didn't want to go into it in detail, but let's just mention John 20 and 31 or 30, many other signs. John use the word sign a lot. Of course, we have the seven and eight signs. John 2:11, the beginning of the miracles. Jesus give Jesus in kind of Galilee. There you have John 2. Yeah. The manifest of his glory and disciples believed on him. Then the way he numbered miracles shows you that he has a purpose. We all the time should recognize that authors have intentions. Why they write. And those intentions must be the way we read their letters. So the New Testament author retains it. The New Testament, the Epistles. We've been here before. Just another reference.

Galatians 4, 9, 11. The word toiture that we have seen in Galatians 4:3, verse 9 through to 11, which refers to spiritual beings. Colossians 2, 8 and 20. We've been there before. Second Peter 3, 10, 11 elements. Hebrews 5, 12 and 13. So the New Testament author does. It doesn't just talk about doctrine. Without a spiritual context of doctrine. That's a New Testament author. So we do have that background in the New Testament. So Balaam saying is that there is a heavenly side of even normal stories. There's a heavenly side to it, to normal stories. There is stories that this is just about, is it not? Abraham and Sarah and Lot. There is supernatural side to that story. Why? Because Psalm 24:1 says the earth space is planted upon the seas. Founded. Sorry upon the seas. Skipped a note here. Just look for it.

All right, so let's go to John 10. One of the reasons why Jesus was killed, the major reason why he was killed. There were two major accusations. And I think I'm going to say this again. You notice as much as he spoke the Word and preached the Gospel and he was for the poor and the oppressed, he never ever became a critic of the government such that he tried to upstate the government. That's why Herod and Pilate said nothing they had done. It wasn't a threat, but they brought him to them. So it wasn't an issue with the government. He didn't have running back to the police. They brought him. It was religious leaders that brought Jesus to them. It wasn't the other way around. They didn't go to complain, say, go and check that your pastor, he didn't do that.

And if you notice too, it happened to Paul, of course, later on he had issues with Caesar and all that which had to do with the fact that he called Jesus the son of God. But it was nothing that had to do with breaking civil laws or crime. That's why Peter says, if you suffer, don't suffer like an evil doer or somebody who breaks laws. Let it because you are a Christian. That must be very clear in our minds. When a pastor gets on the pool, begins to insult the government, then they come after him, says for the gospel. It's not the gospel. This is your own personal work. That's what you're doing. So Jesus didn't have that. So they took him to Pilate and they had two accusations. One of them after they had reacts with the guy, the light did not gel.

I said he was going to bring down the temple and he felt with what he said, your boy, this is not going to fly out this guy temple. Can you even carry the chair for something else? So they couldn't. But the one that was the One that they convicted him over was what he said by himself. Look at Matthew 26. You say, why did they kill Jesus Christocentric? I'm Christocentric too. Don't forget. We say for our sins. So you mean Cephas, the high priest, said, we are going to kill you for our sins? He said, no. He said, it's God that did what that killed you for our cities? No. So why regulate? Just read and understand it. That in Matthew 26, Why they. Now let's move. Let's read Matthew 20:22. Are you learning something? Verse 41.

They kept coming at him and notice that Matthew said they were trying to catch something from what he said. They were trying to see what he would say. They were trying to pick out something he said and all that. But look at verse 41. They asked him about verse 35. One of them asked him, what's the great commandment of the law? He answered him. He came back again. He kept asking questions. That is tearing off. And they were playing the role of the Old Testament Satan. Satan in the Old Testament is both good and evil. It's not the devil, as we say today. It just means one who brings accusations, or one who opposes you, or one who is trying you, puts you on trial. So when he says here that.

And he answered them, then the guided again 41 and said, and asked him, what think you of Christ? Whose son is he? He said of David. He asked them. Sorry. Then he asked him and he said to them, how then does David in spirit call him Lord? Saying the Lord said to my Lord. That is a very technical area of the Old Testament where you have Yahweh. Adonai said to my Lord, sit on my right hand till I make thine enemies. Thy footstool. On face value, it is Adonai the priest. No, the Adonai is Yahweh himself. Because by the time you read it, another Melchizedek verse 4, then that shows you that whoever is being spoken to is the most high. Then he says, if David then calls him Lord, verse 46, how is he his son? Look at 46.

And no man was able to answer a word. Neither does any man from that day ask him any more questions. Okay? Course, this is relative to that particular time, because he still has two questions after. So they now started to plan, you know, how they were going to arrest him and all of that. So Matthew 26, Verse three down. When they came after him, the look at verse 15, they came to Judas and says, we'll Give you money, betray him and all of that. So now what was now the point? You can't just take somebody and say, you know. So they now asked him, look at verse 59. Now chief priests and the elders and all the council sought false witness against Jesus to put him to death. Paul's witness found none.

Yea, though many false witnesses came and found none, at the last came two false witnesses. I mean, this is serious. And said, this fellow said, I'm able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days. The high priest arose and said to him, answer thou nothing. What is this witness against thee? That is, I mean, you want to build the temple in three days? He heard his peace. Then he now asked the question, because he knows that judgment call from the Old Testament was to destroy this temple. And then he says, judgment? Then what's going to happen? Then they know. That's why they asked, what is the sign? He says, after three days, I'll raise it again. Jesus now answered back and said, then they asked the answer. I judged the believing God.

Are you the Christ, the Son of God? I think Luke says, the son of the blessed. Is it Luke or Mark, the son of the blessed. Then he now answered and said, Nehemiah said, wherever you shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power and coming, can we say the host of heaven. Huh? That means a man, a human being, will sit in the most High because anyone above the clouds is that most high. Right? Okay, good. And I present this closer and say, this is blasphemy. We need no further witnesses, because what I've heard is blasphemy. The answer, he's guilty of death. It's part of his face. So this is why his claim to be a man like God was the offense. Is this found in Scripture?

Now let's put it together and say it's one of those things that God will blindside the devil. Because in Genesis 3:15, the seed of the woman, both Adam and Eve and the audience of the writers of Genesis, anything, he's talking about messianic prophecy or somebody coming to die for our sins. No, but that's not what it was. So. But by the time you put the Scriptures together and put everything together, you're going to see will be like you are now seeing the answer and say, oh, that's the question. That's why to understand this will start with faith. Then now go back and say it according to the Scriptures. So when he said that this was why they convicted him, he A man saying he is God. That's what they are saying. Because only the most high sits in the clouds.

Because in the Old Testament, the cloud weather is called BAAL fake one. And God dealt with BAAL to say, I own the clouds, I own the host of heaven. So those words class kept coming up in New Testament writings as well, and also the four Gospels. So this was very critical to why he was crucified. His identification with man is why he was killed. His elevation with man, you know, if it was Yahweh that just bound. But you can see a human being in fact in their captivity saying, I am the most high. That's what he was saying, I am the most high coming in the clouds of heaven. I said, this guy is mad. They didn't even know that in those clouds we evolved human beings. Peter, James and John and all of us here. We are not in that cloud.

There's no pilot. Don't worry, we're both so in John 10. So that claim of divinity in humanity or humanity with divinity was the ultimate offense. John 10, are you here? John 10, Verse 30. I and my father are one. So look up stones to stone him. But really, when it comes to blasphemy, it's not the cross, it's stoning. And he said, many good works have I showed you from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me? They said, for a good work will stone thee not, but for blasphemy, because thou hast thou been in man makes yourself God. Now, verse 34 is where we're going. Then he said to them, is it not written in your law? I have said you are gods. If he called them gods unto whom the word of God came, then the Scriptures cannot be broken.

Now of course, you know that a couple of people have used this. Otherwise. Now this is obviously a quote from Psalm 82. The argument here is that the gods here are human judges. There are two arguments about this, that the gods he's referring to are human gods. But the reason why this is so Psalm 82, God stands, verse 1, in the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods. Let me read this to you from the Septuagint Bible. In the Septuagint Bible you are going to have it. In Psalm 81, God stood in the assembly of the gods. In the middle, he judges the gods. Pay attention because this is going to connect to what we said earlier. So this view says this God here are human gods or human Elohims. When he says in verse six, I've Said, you are God's.

All of you are the children of the Most High. That is really talking about human beings, gods, you know, you will see why this matters. I gave you a background. Why are we looking at this? Because we can't miss it. I gave you a background that the reason why he was crucified was deity identifying with humanity. That was why he was crucified is the very reason why we are saved. So it has to be logical and of course it has to sink. Okay, now notice this Psalm 82, number one, John, who is the writer of John, could not be John's emphasis. Anybody who knows the purpose of the Gospel of John knows that John, from the very first statement, the word was God, was affirming the deity of Jesus, not his humanity.

Whilst the other three was more in the humanity, John focused on the divinity, the deity of Jesus, of course, because of what he faced. So John's Christology was more to show that Jesus was a monogeneous, unique God as man, unique son of God. The second thing, why this cannot be a human story of an Elohim is the fact that the reason why Jesus was arrested was not because he equated himself with Israel's judges. No, it was because he called himself God, divine deity. In John 10, precisely verse 36, he says, because why do you want to kill me? Because I am the Son of God. And they wanted to arrest him for that very reason. Reason, verse 39. Right.

The third issue is definitely the Hebrew audience or the ancient Israelites could not be thinking that the claims of Elohim by anyone would be to be a human judge. Could John 10 be referring to humans? No. Now of course, the New Testament writers doesn't use Theos for man. And Theos is used here in that reference. That's one, two. There's an argument. Well, when he says the law, that the law here can't be Psalm 82, since some it is a psalm. Truth is that many times the entire Old Testament is called the law. Matthew 5:17, Matthew 5:18. So that defeats the argument that Jesus was not referring to Psalm 82. Now, why does this matter? I put this in my notes. Why does this matter? I'll come back to that. Why does it matter? We'll see that shortly.

So Psalm 82 will be the regular description. The most high speaking to the host of heaven. Call it the supernatural assembly. Divine council. Depends on the phrase. That same thing where you find in 1st Kings 22. Like I said, the divine council is a borrowed term from what we call the Bene Elohim, the sons of God. Naivety amongst other cultures. So I'm usually not too keen to use it. 1St Kings 22:19 Hear ye the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne and all the hosts of heaven standing by him on the right hand and on his left. The Lord said, who shall persuade that conversation? So this is in sync with Psalm 82, verse 1, where Yahweh sits above. Now you notice that there is an influences in 1 Kings 22 to human activities.

There's a direct influence on kings and rulers and those in authority. So first Kings 22 again addresses what we are reading in Psalm 82 and verse. And not just that. Let's see such a conversation. Genesis 1 that language let us make man. That's not the Godhead speaking to himself. That's that language of the host of heaven where Yahweh sits above it. Let us make man 26 in our image after our likeness. In Genesis 2, when he says that. It's not good for man to be alone. Verse 18. There was no help found in 2020. That's like a conversation, a teaching. Like a teaching class for hosts of heaven. Genesis 3, Verse 14. The Lord God said to the nakash, that's a host of heaven being. It speaks to a host of heaven. Genesis 6.

My spirit shall not always strive with man, for he also his flesh, yet his day shall be 120 years. I was going to talk about that. Maybe I'll still go there. There was translations. I've used the word din d I n. We even use it in our earlier books, but I've corrected it. And is the word to strive. But the Hebrew there is yadon y a t o n. It means to remain with. Okay. Which is to abide. So we're going to get that as well. Well, Genesis 8:21 I will not again curse the ground anymore for man's sake. Who is he talking to? Host of heaven. Right. For the mighty of his man's heart to heal from his youth. Neither will I against my anymore everything living as I have done. There's another one. Genesis 9, verse 6.

Whosoever sheds man's blood by man shall his blood be shed for the image of God made in man. That's a host of heaven conversation. So look at Genesis 11. So when you find God speaking and you don't find any particular person, that's host of heaven, that shows you how supernatural that world was. Genesis 11 the Lord God came down to see the city and the tower which the children of Israel builded. And he said, behold, the people is one. He's talking to the supernatural assembly called divine council. Call it the host of heaven. Genesis 11, 6, Let us go down. Same thing. So Jeremiah 32, verse 8 says, that was where he gave to the nations of the earth, the sons of God. Are you following? Are you following? All right, good. Now look at Genesis 18, Verse 17.

The Lord said, shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation. And just the same way he talks to men and will get revelation for what he wants to do, that's how he speaks to the hosts of heaven. And all nations of the earth shall be blessed. For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him. And he shall keep the way of the Lord, justice and judgment. And the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken. Are you following? And by the time we get to that 18 and 19, we saw that there were three men that were with Abraham. Two left and one was Yahweh.

So that's that supernatural assembly, divine council, host of heaven, language in the way it says, behold, I have seen man. And so that's language. So Psalm 82, you learned something. So when it says Yahweh, verse one, or God stands according to the Almighty, he judges amongst the gods. That has to be clear cut. One second. Clear cut, host of heaven language somewhere. I'm not reading. So the argument that this is about Israel, that there's an argument that the gods here, sons of God, here israel. Why Exodus 4:22, Israel is my son, my firstborn. The first thing is that the son used for Israel in Exodus is singular for the whole nation. This one is a pluralistic language. And he uses Elohim or Eloha and Beni Elohim, which is used for the sons of God.

What call is supernatural beings or angels or hosts of heaven. Now why then is he saying that they are responsible for injustice in the earth? The poor being oppressed. As we have seen, there's a connection between the use of authority in the earth and the host of heaven. So when hosts of heaven are judged, they are also joined with civil authorities. Old Testament and of course New Testament. That's why Paul will call it principalities, power, might and dominion. Of course, verse five, they know not, neither will they understand. They walk on in darkness, all the foundation of the earth. Of course, I've said, you are God, all of you on the most High, but you shall die like men and fools, like one of the princes. So this already shows you that this is speaking to non mortal beings. So let's quickly see something.

I can't find this note. Okay, I've seen it. Yeah. Now there's another view. I don't want to dwell much on it. That when Jesus says to whom the word of God came, in John 10 he was talking about the Mount Sinai that he was referring to the nation of Israel and how the word of the Lord was when the angel of death. Of course that's really a conjecture. So when it says to whom the word of God came, when Jesus said that in John 10, he was referring to that Psalm 82 because it was a supernatural assembly, host of heaven, divine council language. When God speaks like that, he's speaking to that is consistent with how he talks to the host of heaven. Then again, like we have said rightly so that Jesus could not have been equating himself with human judges.

So he became blasphemy. That equation was I and my father are one. That was what he was talking about. And he knew the Father was referring to them, was the most high God. And he, being a man, equating himself with the most high, was where the offense was. Of course this eventually now would be addressed by Paul when he says we are now the way Paul started. He said, Jesus is raised far above, again acknowledging that deity. He says, we are seated in him far above. So there's credence given to that in the epistles, that by identification humanity is able to sit on that throne, as it were, above the host of heaven, above principality's power, might and dominion.

The scenario view doesn't make any sense because it's really then above also with that by using nations in Psalm 82, that they didn't judge the nations. Well, God did not give Israel judges over nations, so that cannot fly now. Jerome 32:8. So obviously Jesus in John 10. Go back there quickly. Jesus in John 10. Is retaining very strongly the supernatural world context of the Old Testament. If he called them gods, to whom that utterance came, John 10:35 and the Scriptures cannot be broken. That is, if those who disobeyed him were called gods and sons of God said, what have I done wrong that I cannot be called the same. That's what he's saying. It can't because the human judges were called sons of God. Why can't I be called the sons of God? Then they are saying he's blaspheming.

That doesn't make any Kind of sense. So he retains this narrative and strongly so. Because if we study the Old Testament properly and we look at the incidences of sin, John, Matthew, Genesis chapter three, where we see the nakash, the being there is a host of heaven creature. Okay, It's a host of heaven creature. And he's found. Because where he's interacting is heaven and earth. Eden. That's why I could interact there. Heaven and earth. I will go to Genesis 6. Now, Genesis 6 is where. Let's just look at it again. Genesis 6. Why does it matter? Because Genesis 3 is supernatural sin. Genesis 11 is supernatural. Genesis 6. And in all the. In Genesis 3, do we have the host of heaven conversation? Genesis 11 we do. Genesis 6 also has that host of heaven conversation. My spirit shall not always abide with man.

Now, this is not indwelling. It can lead to indwelling. Man here is mankind. It's a corporate dwelling. And this will go to Genesis level also as a corporate dwelling. Because the very first Genesis 1:3 was a corporate dwelling with man for his flesh. Now, Job's conversation, Yahweh, comes with a time. You see? Also host of evolution. Huh? So is it consistent? Huh? It is with Genesis. It's consistent. That conversation, Psalm 82, that conversation is also consistent. So Genesis 6. Now says in verse two, the sons of God saw daughters of men that were fair. They took them wives of all which they chose. Verse 4 were giant in the earth in those days. And also after, when the sons of God came to daughters of men. So there's an argument here that.

But Jesus in Matthew 22, So first and foremost, Jesus also calls the host of heaven sons of God. Is that clear? Is that clear? So in Matthew 22, Jesus says in 30. And this is a major argument against that. Genesis 6, which is very flawed anyway. Verse 29, you do err not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection, they neither marry or are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. That this rules out that the supernatural beings of Genesis 6 actually has sexual intercourse with the women. Now, the Septuagint confused seventh day Power transitions interpretation. It says in verse one, it happened when humans began to become numerous upon the earth, and they had daughters. Verse two, the angels of God have been seen daughters of humans, and they were beautiful.

This distinction already shows you. These are supernatural beings, took for themselves women from all whom they picked out. Lord God said, my breath will certainly not reside with these humans for very long because they are flesh. But their days will be 120 years, which is really the time of judgment and the ark and all that. Now, giants were upon the earth in those days. And after that, whenever the sons of God, which shows a probability. Whenever. So this is not a one time thing. It's one of those things that archetypal. Whenever the sons of God entered in the daughters of humans, they fathered children for them. Those were the giants who were from long ago, the people of renown. So the giants the nestle again recognized in numbers 13. So does the statement of Jesus here, does it negate what we have just said?

Does it negate it coming back to what we said earlier? 1 Corinthians 6 mentioned that Paul says that we will judge the angels, First Corinthians 6 for doing what it has to have been an offense. Second Peter 2, verse 4 says, the angels that sinned, Jude 6, the angels that kept not their first estate, because angels also of heaven, right? Huh? Sons of God, okay. But left their own absent everlasting chains under darkness to the judgment of the great day. So no doubt the writer of New Testament recognized that there will be or there is a judgment of the host of heaven or sinful supernatural beings. One thing here. So is there not a problem with Matthew 22? There is, because there's no problem. Matthew 22, the context was the resurrection. Jesus was talking about the resurrection. And in the resurrection, right?

The physical bodies of believers will not be mortal. The physical bodies of believers, First Corinthians 15 are you learning something? Will be immortal. So that means that the heavenly bodies or supernatural bodies of these supernatural beings had the capacity to have procreation. So we had these supernatural beings, a crossbreed and very ridiculous one for that matter. So therefore there is the glorified bodies in the resurrection. Okay, let me just read my answer in Resurrection, which obviously notice that procreation for Adam and Eve did not happen in the garden. It was outside the garden. Glorified bodies. The tree of life also shows you the argument. The tree of life shows you that their bodies were not immortal. In fact, they need tree of life. So First Corinthians 15:42,44 shows that we will have imperishable, incorruptible bodies. That's what the resurrection is about.

So Jesus is saying, at the resurrection there will be no because at the resurrection is going to be immortal bodies, two immortal bodies. There will be no procreation. He's not in any way negating what Genesis 6 is talking about, which addressed by second Timothy, second Peter 2, 4 and Jude 5, 6, 7. Does it make sense? Does it make sense? So it doesn't in any way negate it at all because the language of Genesis 6 is very clear. They came into the daughters of men is sexual. And that's where we have those Anakims. And that is where Israel had much of the wars that they fought. Go Back to John 10. Are you here now? Is there still a possibility? Let me look for your Trouble. Look at First Corinthians 11. Could the arguments of James 11.

If we are going to readdress this particular text in any upcoming material, we are probably going to step it up a bit. We stay with just the cultural context. But there seems to be a supernatural world context in the issue of covering of head and all that. Again, because it has worship involved. And Paul is talking to Corinth where he mentions idols a lot. So we can't detach that quickly because chapter 10 had to do idols. Chapter 12 had to do idols. Chapter 10, chapter 8, Isaiah. Is there something about idol worship and the culture? So yeah, so we stopped with just the culture you have heard and all that. But there's something he said here. He's talking about women prosecuted, her head uncovered and all that. Then he says in verse seven, for a man indeed ought not to have his hair covered.

For as much as is the image and the glory of God and the woman is the glory of the man is not of the woman. That's the physical body speaking, and the woman is of the man. Neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man. Now this is one of the things we are going to address and Excuse me, Pastor, I have a question. I still have a question. This is one of those questions. Is Paul putting the man ahead of the woman? Yes. Now you need to understand the world where they lived. A key element of the ancient world and of course by the time we got to the Greco Roman era, was the fact that they were always dealing with disorder and order and chaos. So many of the social systems was to put in order.

They are not seeing equality. The way we see equality today is order. Somebody must be in charge. Now if you are writing at that time, you would use their language. You can't even accuse Paul of being a chauvinistic person because he spoke about unity more than any other writer of scripture, male and female. He had female apostles and all that. But when you are dealing with culture, you have to use their language. And so orderliness was one of the reasons why he had slave servants you know, I noticed that, you know, also somebody being in charge is always a system of order. Now from there we can have tyranny, no doubt. But this is in the mind of Paul when he writes here we deal with that. Now it says neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man.

For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels. Now in our earlier materials we said because of that distinction with angels and we brought in the supernatural world, quote, context. Now there are three propositions here. Three. So put the three down. That first one is because, you know, man is drawn from angels. That's the fourth proposition. Second one is there a tendency to see angels here, Angelus, as ministers of the Gospel? It's weak, but it's worth thinking about that to show authority. And all that is very weak was applicable. The third is Paul reminding us of Genesis 6:1:4. Is it strong? Is there a strong position that Paul is going back to Genesis 6? Do we have evidence that Paul refers to Genesis 6? Of course. First Corinthians 6. Right there will judge the angels. Which angels?

The angels that sinned. Where did they sin? They came to daughters of men. In anecdotal readers we use the distinction between man and angels, which is a context proper one. But can we advance it further? The one for Angelus or ministers looks very weak. Very, very weak. But it's Paul reminding us of Genesis 6:1:4. Who thinks so you are looking at the consequences. Although never be afraid of the consequences of proper Bible study. I'm going to talk on Sunday. On Monday. Sorry, maybe another. It's a paper I'm presenting somewhere and I said that in teaching the Bible we should not strive to be right like we should be faithful. You know, if you are trying to be right, it's like in the law court, lawyers know what I'm saying. You just want to prove something. I'm sure the other person is wrong.

But faithfulness means I will just say what is there. I might be wrong when I'm done. So we must stick to faithful interpretation. Just be faithful, you know, just be faithful with scriptures. Don't try to bring an opinion to do. No, it cannot be this. So I'm going to say it again. Does it look like Paul is taking. Because if you look at chapter six where it says we shall judge the angels, that is Old Testament, right? Huh? And Jude talks about it, Peter talks about it. Okay, so does it appear like Paul is bringing the JC6 narrative to it? Think about it let me leave you so. Because we are looking at me like, pastor, just say something. Let us. Let us be. What will be the implication that means if you don't cover your hair, right?

No, because the core of what he was dealing with was worship. And I can tell you that Genesis 6:1:4 was about worship. Sex and worship were interwoven in the Old Testament context. That's why when in numbers 25, what did Malab so go across these guys. But when you cause them to have sex with idol worshippers, and that happened to Solomon too, then you see destruction. And we've expanded that. 1 Corinthians 11. I want to say something very clearly here. That the air, this is also a proposition that the air was at that time seen in the cultures. The exposure of the air was like showing your cleavage was like a sexual exposure. So it's not the way we see here now. No, no, it's not the same thing. It's a proposition. It's debatable, but it is very plausible.

So Paul is dealing there with some level of nudity. And it's very strong because the symbolism of it, which we saw in Genesis 3, where it's strange that the writer says that the serpent was subtle arum A R U M which means very smart, seeking to deceive is both positive and negative. Then he says that Adam and Eve who told you were naked and it's like the same Anton who told you were naked. Like it sounds alike, the arum. I think that one Aram, it sounds the same thing. It's from the same route. So the concept of nudity, therefore, and should I say sexual liberty is spiritual. It has to be anyway. So at the back of that is that the argument of Paul? Like I said, there's no completion. We just had thinking. Okay, is that okay?

Because Paul couldn't bring in supernatural beings so easily like that and is not dealing with a supernatural context. There's no reason why you will mention angels if what you are dealing with is not supernatural. Without every course we think is a spiritual world context because it talks about worship. Who prays and prayer and prophecy is that worship. So by relating with air or indecent dressing, Paul is linking culture with supernatural beings. Are we here? And that will cause us to think so quick one already we're out of time. First Peter three. Hope you are learning something. First Peter three. I'll skip a couple of things. You know, we asked that we're looking at the what happened in 1 Peter 3 by which also verse 19 he preached unto the spirit in prison.

There were a lot of things we saw, a few things we saw the last time. Let me just briefly. We said that the Overall context of 1 Peter is that we are facing persecution. Remember that violence. 4Th 16 4, 3, 2, 12, 4th quarter 2 15, verse 18 to 24, 394319 to 17 4, verse 1 to 6, 4th quarter 4, verse 12 to 14 and 16 and 194 Switzer 58 to 10 now this is important. If we are dealing with oppression and we said in Acts 4, the scripture they went through while eating rage is supernatural war context that where we have persecution of the church is not against flesh and blood. So Peter definitely is dealing with non flesh and blood persecution, even though what they can see is flesh and blood. So we said that this spirit.

Of course the use of new mark is not. The New Testament writer doesn't use new man for man. No, it's usually an external force or a supernatural world being. So by saying space in prison, it's very likely or lends credence to the fact that he's relating with the host of heaven. Genesis 6, Genesis 11. Just that context again. Now watch this. This is important of course in 1st Peter 3. This is a bit of literary. There's something called a chasm, a chastic narration. I've taught you that in some series where there are group of censuses that they are scattered. It's systematically done where you can now put like and know what he's talking about.

Let's see what I mean in one Peter 3:16 having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you and of evildoers, they be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. For it is better if the will of God be so, and that you suffer for well doing, than for evil doing so. This is the context of suffering. For Christ also at once suffered for sins the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached to the spirits in prison, who sometimes were disobedient. When once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, wherein filled that eight souls were saved by water.

The like figure whereunto baptism doth also now save us not the putting away of the faith of the flesh, but the answer of the good conscience was God. Now look at 22 who is gone to heaven, who is on the right hand of God. Now notice this. Angels and authorities and powers Being made subject to him. And these angels, authority and powers, are they spirit beings? Okay, they are spirit beings being subject to him. So this is the chair. Let me just close here because I'll just. Let me just wrap this up. Now the word preached got my attention. You know, I would have said it last week or two weeks ago. Now the word preached. Now usually the word preached for evangelism is shuangelism, where you are bringing a particular news to convince evangelism. Now, of course they are used differently. Really?

I don't want to, I don't want to box you into a corner so that you are. You won't be a bit biased. However, in first. Now in first Peter I just read first Peter. And so that in first Peter 4, 1 Peter 1:12, the same book where he said preach the gospel. Preach the gospel. 112 1St Peter 1. 25 The gospel is preached. She was Elizo 1 Peter 4:6. Everywhere he used preached here 4 Peter 4:6 for this course was the gospel preached to them that are dead. So everywhere use preach the gospel. But in First Peter 3, 9, 19, he doesn't say gospel, uses Keruso K E R U S O to announce. So this might invalidate our earlier position that this was Noah. I might not. Because did Noah preach in Genesis for people to believe or he announced God's judgment?

That is up for a conversation. But if Peter uses Caruso here and he doesn't use the typical it means it's a different context. So in the death of Jesus, particularly in his resurrection, was it a declaration? Caruso simply means to make a declaration. And notice that the declaration that Peter preached that Jesus used in hell is the resurrection were found on the leaves of David, where having won victory, they just declare we have won. We are lord over you. So in the resurrection, did Jesus preach to these beings? Yes. How he's far above. He's the most high. Far above all principalities. Power, mind blowing. That itself is a preaching announcement above host of heaven, including the fallen ones. It's very, very believable and plausible. So we're going to look at it again.

As I've been said earlier, I'll close here that the death of Jesus and resurrection had more to do with the heavenlies than just earthly realities. What happened from the cross to the throne that E.W. Kennel will say what the devil saw and what God saw. We'll continue from here.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/