All of you are the children of the Most High. That is really talking about human beings, gods, you know, you will see why this matters. I gave you a background. Why are we looking at this? Because we can't miss it. I gave you a background that the reason why he was crucified was deity identifying with humanity. That was why he was crucified is the very reason why we are saved. So it has to be logical and of course it has to sink. Okay, now notice this Psalm 82, number one, John, who is the writer of John, could not be John's emphasis. Anybody who knows the purpose of the Gospel of John knows that John, from the very first statement, the word was God, was affirming the deity of Jesus, not his humanity.

Whilst the other three was more in the humanity, John focused on the divinity, the deity of Jesus, of course, because of what he faced. So John's Christology was more to show that Jesus was a monogeneous, unique God as man, unique son of God. The second thing, why this cannot be a human story of an Elohim is the fact that the reason why Jesus was arrested was not because he equated himself with Israel's judges. No, it was because he called himself God, divine deity. In John 10, precisely verse 36, he says, because why do you want to kill me? Because I am the Son of God. And they wanted to arrest him for that very reason. Reason, verse 39. Right.

The third issue is definitely the Hebrew audience or the ancient Israelites could not be thinking that the claims of Elohim by anyone would be to be a human judge. Could John 10 be referring to humans? No. Now of course, the New Testament writers doesn't use Theos for man. And Theos is used here in that reference. That's one, two. There's an argument. Well, when he says the law, that the law here can't be Psalm 82, since some it is a psalm. Truth is that many times the entire Old Testament is called the law. Matthew 5:17, Matthew 5:18. So that defeats the argument that Jesus was not referring to Psalm 82. Now, why does this matter? I put this in my notes. Why does this matter? I'll come back to that. Why does it matter? We'll see that shortly.

So Psalm 82 will be the regular description. The most high speaking to the host of heaven. Call it the supernatural assembly. Divine council. Depends on the phrase. That same thing where you find in 1st Kings 22. Like I said, the divine council is a borrowed term from what we call the Bene Elohim, the sons of God. Naivety amongst other cultures. So I'm usually not too keen to use it. 1St Kings 22:19 Hear ye the word of the Lord. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne and all the hosts of heaven standing by him on the right hand and on his left. The Lord said, who shall persuade that conversation? So this is in sync with Psalm 82, verse 1, where Yahweh sits above. Now you notice that there is an influences in 1 Kings 22 to human activities.

There's a direct influence on kings and rulers and those in authority. So first Kings 22 again addresses what we are reading in Psalm 82 and verse. And not just that. Let's see such a conversation. Genesis 1 that language let us make man. That's not the Godhead speaking to himself. That's that language of the host of heaven where Yahweh sits above it. Let us make man 26 in our image after our likeness. In Genesis 2, when he says that. It's not good for man to be alone. Verse 18. There was no help found in 2020. That's like a conversation, a teaching. Like a teaching class for hosts of heaven. Genesis 3, Verse 14. The Lord God said to the nakash, that's a host of heaven being. It speaks to a host of heaven. Genesis 6.

My spirit shall not always strive with man, for he also his flesh, yet his day shall be 120 years. I was going to talk about that. Maybe I'll still go there. There was translations. I've used the word din d I n. We even use it in our earlier books, but I've corrected it. And is the word to strive. But the Hebrew there is yadon y a t o n. It means to remain with. Okay. Which is to abide. So we're going to get that as well. Well, Genesis 8:21 I will not again curse the ground anymore for man's sake. Who is he talking to? Host of heaven. Right. For the mighty of his man's heart to heal from his youth. Neither will I against my anymore everything living as I have done. There's another one. Genesis 9, verse 6.

Whosoever sheds man's blood by man shall his blood be shed for the image of God made in man. That's a host of heaven conversation. So look at Genesis 11. So when you find God speaking and you don't find any particular person, that's host of heaven, that shows you how supernatural that world was. Genesis 11 the Lord God came down to see the city and the tower which the children of Israel builded. And he said, behold, the people is one. He's talking to the supernatural assembly called divine council. Call it the host of heaven. Genesis 11, 6, Let us go down. Same thing. So Jeremiah 32, verse 8 says, that was where he gave to the nations of the earth, the sons of God. Are you following? Are you following? All right, good. Now look at Genesis 18, Verse 17.

The Lord said, shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation. And just the same way he talks to men and will get revelation for what he wants to do, that's how he speaks to the hosts of heaven. And all nations of the earth shall be blessed. For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him. And he shall keep the way of the Lord, justice and judgment. And the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he has spoken. Are you following? And by the time we get to that 18 and 19, we saw that there were three men that were with Abraham. Two left and one was Yahweh.

So that's that supernatural assembly, divine council, host of heaven, language in the way it says, behold, I have seen man. And so that's language. So Psalm 82, you learned something. So when it says Yahweh, verse one, or God stands according to the Almighty, he judges amongst the gods. That has to be clear cut. One second. Clear cut, host of heaven language somewhere. I'm not reading. So the argument that this is about Israel, that there's an argument that the gods here, sons of God, here israel. Why Exodus 4:22, Israel is my son, my firstborn. The first thing is that the son used for Israel in Exodus is singular for the whole nation. This one is a pluralistic language. And he uses Elohim or Eloha and Beni Elohim, which is used for the sons of God.

What call is supernatural beings or angels or hosts of heaven. Now why then is he saying that they are responsible for injustice in the earth? The poor being oppressed. As we have seen, there's a connection between the use of authority in the earth and the host of heaven. So when hosts of heaven are judged, they are also joined with civil authorities. Old Testament and of course New Testament. That's why Paul will call it principalities, power, might and dominion. Of course, verse five, they know not, neither will they understand. They walk on in darkness, all the foundation of the earth. Of course, I've said, you are God, all of you on the most High, but you shall die like men and fools, like one of the princes. So this already shows you that this is speaking to non mortal beings. So let's quickly see something.

I can't find this note. Okay, I've seen it. Yeah. Now there's another view. I don't want to dwell much on it. That when Jesus says to whom the word of God came, in John 10 he was talking about the Mount Sinai that he was referring to the nation of Israel and how the word of the Lord was when the angel of death. Of course that's really a conjecture. So when it says to whom the word of God came, when Jesus said that in John 10, he was referring to that Psalm 82 because it was a supernatural assembly, host of heaven, divine council language. When God speaks like that, he's speaking to that is consistent with how he talks to the host of heaven. Then again, like we have said rightly so that Jesus could not have been equating himself with human judges.

So he became blasphemy. That equation was I and my father are one. That was what he was talking about. And he knew the Father was referring to them, was the most high God. And he, being a man, equating himself with the most high, was where the offense was. Of course this eventually now would be addressed by Paul when he says we are now the way Paul started. He said, Jesus is raised far above, again acknowledging that deity. He says, we are seated in him far above. So there's credence given to that in the epistles, that by identification humanity is able to sit on that throne, as it were, above the host of heaven, above principality's power, might and dominion.

The scenario view doesn't make any sense because it's really then above also with that by using nations in Psalm 82, that they didn't judge the nations. Well, God did not give Israel judges over nations, so that cannot fly now. Jerome 32:8. So obviously Jesus in John 10. Go back there quickly. Jesus in John 10. Is retaining very strongly the supernatural world context of the Old Testament. If he called them gods, to whom that utterance came, John 10:35 and the Scriptures cannot be broken. That is, if those who disobeyed him were called gods and sons of God said, what have I done wrong that I cannot be called the same. That's what he's saying. It can't because the human judges were called sons of God. Why can't I be called the sons of God? Then they are saying he's blaspheming.

That doesn't make any Kind of sense. So he retains this narrative and strongly so. Because if we study the Old Testament properly and we look at the incidences of sin, John, Matthew, Genesis chapter three, where we see the nakash, the being there is a host of heaven creature. Okay, It's a host of heaven creature. And he's found. Because where he's interacting is heaven and earth. Eden. That's why I could interact there. Heaven and earth. I will go to Genesis 6. Now, Genesis 6 is where. Let's just look at it again. Genesis 6. Why does it matter? Because Genesis 3 is supernatural sin. Genesis 11 is supernatural. Genesis 6. And in all the. In Genesis 3, do we have the host of heaven conversation? Genesis 11 we do. Genesis 6 also has that host of heaven conversation. My spirit shall not always abide with man.

Now, this is not indwelling. It can lead to indwelling. Man here is mankind. It's a corporate dwelling. And this will go to Genesis level also as a corporate dwelling. Because the very first Genesis 1:3 was a corporate dwelling with man for his flesh. Now, Job's conversation, Yahweh, comes with a time. You see? Also host of evolution. Huh? So is it consistent? Huh? It is with Genesis. It's consistent. That conversation, Psalm 82, that conversation is also consistent. So Genesis 6. Now says in verse two, the sons of God saw daughters of men that were fair. They took them wives of all which they chose. Verse 4 were giant in the earth in those days. And also after, when the sons of God came to daughters of men. So there's an argument here that.

But Jesus in Matthew 22, So first and foremost, Jesus also calls the host of heaven sons of God. Is that clear? Is that clear? So in Matthew 22, Jesus says in 30. And this is a major argument against that. Genesis 6, which is very flawed anyway. Verse 29, you do err not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection, they neither marry or are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven. That this rules out that the supernatural beings of Genesis 6 actually has sexual intercourse with the women. Now, the Septuagint confused seventh day Power transitions interpretation. It says in verse one, it happened when humans began to become numerous upon the earth, and they had daughters. Verse two, the angels of God have been seen daughters of humans, and they were beautiful.

This distinction already shows you. These are supernatural beings, took for themselves women from all whom they picked out. Lord God said, my breath will certainly not reside with these humans for very long because they are flesh. But their days will be 120 years, which is really the time of judgment and the ark and all that. Now, giants were upon the earth in those days. And after that, whenever the sons of God, which shows a probability. Whenever. So this is not a one time thing. It's one of those things that archetypal. Whenever the sons of God entered in the daughters of humans, they fathered children for them. Those were the giants who were from long ago, the people of renown. So the giants the nestle again recognized in numbers 13. So does the statement of Jesus here, does it negate what we have just said?