No, please, you can't be tired. This has to be a summary of his temptations. So he goes and he says, my emphasis in verse eight. All the kingdoms. Sorry, verse six, I'll give it to you. Has been given to me. Where? Who? All the kingdoms have been given to me. Now pause a bit. We have said that, this being New Testament authors, that's why I said, in this series, you must pay very good attention because I'm very deliberate on the terms I'm using and the way I'm explaining it. Now, notice that we said Satan from the Old Testament is not any particular person. Remember, I will say that there was more than one supernatural being involved in prosecuting, attacking, you know, persecuted, more than one.

But over time, one particular part of the host of heaven acquired the title of the devil and the Satan. You might not find this explanation in the Old Testament because there's not just one. All right, so here. Has been given to me. Will be one person speaking for others. Has been given to me. Do not forget again, we said that host requires structural authority, some level of orderliness. Ephesians 6:12 also talks about preservative power, might dominion, power, spiritual wickedness in the high. So that shows you there's a structure. So let's assume this is the head of the structure. Let's assume that this is the commander in chief, as it were. Okay, now, he says, has been given to me. Whoever I will, I give it to you. Now, if this was a lie, it wasn't a temptation. It wasn't a lie. So by whom?

Now look at John. John 18:11. Thou could have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above. It's talking to Pilate. Therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin. So he says, you cannot have this power, except it was given to you from above. Now Jesus is talking to an earthly ruler. We are quick a bit here, but we have said that. Is there a connection between ethnic kings and the supernatural world? There is. Remember in Acts 4 I showed you the other day that when the elders persecuted them, they went to Psalm 2. Why do the eating rage and the people imagine a vain thing? He says, the kings of the earth and the rulers, all right, Moved against the Lord and against his anointed. Excuse me, how supernatural world.

Yet through earthly kings, the connection must not be lost. That is why there's a debate on First Corinthians 2:8. Had the princes of this world known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Who are his people? Is it Pilate? No, that's a supernatural world. But their manifestation is through earthly authority. Remember we said. We're probably going to go back to that in the second. Let me see my. Yeah, in the second session. That. Where we have. Pay attention. Semblance of structure, unity. We said there's what? A supernatural context. Can you remember that? Genesis 11. A supernatural context to it. People are just bound by culture. They're bound by thinking, they're bound by habits. They're bound by, you know, pursuit, purpose and theology, as it were. It's a supernatural world context to it. So given to me where.

Now we're in a little bit of trouble here. Jesus is saying Pilate's authority came from above. Jesus asked, does Jesus use above for the power of darkness? Let's make an assumption that he's referring to supernatural powers. Okay, supernatural powers, above. What about Luke 4? Satan is saying, it's given to me. Given to me by who? Now some theology says is referring to Genesis 3. Given to him by. By Adam. Now that's a little bit interesting. Adam didn't have that to give. Adam couldn't have given a Satan the kingdoms of the world. It looks too simplistic to accept that. So we must go back to the Old Testament again. But one thing I give to that fact is that at least those who support that know that it's the Old Testament that can explain it.

There's nothing that suggests that what happened in Genesis 3 is Adam giving authority to the devil. What we saw was the three parties or two were chunked out together. So if what we read, verses 3:16 was I put enmity between your seed and a seed to booze ahead. Who's your seed? That's not anyone being given authority. We don't find any background to that authority. And don't forget kingdoms have to do with territories. There's nothing like that in Genesis 3. But like I usually like to do, sometimes one error here and there not oh, let's think about it. Sometimes those things lead you to think better. So that means we agree it was given. And I think the challenge with those who have that supposition is that they just don't want to imagine it was God who gave it. That will put us in trouble.

But the plain truth is, and this is why they should go first, if Yahweh gave man authority and that man disobeyed, then it's not out of place for Yahweh to give supernatural officials authority. Disobeyed doing it. That shouldn't be a problem. Okay. It doesn't mean we're in a mess. No, we're not. It just simply means that Yahweh makes or made Yahweh. God made free will beings. That's what it is. So where therefore can we the look at this conversation has been given to me. And Jesus told Pilate, you can't have this except it's given to you from above. Maybe I should mention one more. Romans 13 Are you in church? What I intend to do for next week we're going to look at the four Gospels and we're going to uncover the supernatural context of the four Gospels. Very interesting way.

Romans 13:1 Let every soul be subject to the higher powers. Now, if there's any place that people have problems with Paul, particularly modern thinkers when it comes to theology is this. It says there is no power but of God. Now the higher powers is local government chairman. Hello. Then it says the powers that be are ordained of God. Whoever. Therefore resist last month. How about that for interpretation? Resist the word of God. That's very compliment. You can't argue with last man last month is those who regulate traffic in Lagos. No way. In Jesus name. I said Paul says they that receive shall receive the same damnation. Get that now. All right. That includes. What's the guy? Vio. Right. For rulers are not entitled to good works, but to evil. We therefore not be afraid of the power.

Actually we had this in one of our books. I think it's God's word in the pandemic. I think we did explain this and the Christian it and politics. I, I think we should write another book on politics and the church. I'm going to have that this year. Do that which is good and that's. Now look at this, look at what it says. Look at. Let's take four together so that, you know, don't look like you didn't see it for it is the. Don't go and don't bother taking the Greek word. It's the same thing. You know, you'll be lost on this if you don't get the Old Testament interpretation of it. So Paul has just said to us that ethnic rulers, you know, Jesus said that to Pilate, right? It's given to you from above. Paul just said the same thing.

So it shows you there is a heaven manifestation of the things on earth. There's a supernatural manifestation. So the concept of this teaching which is seated on high truth of the Ephesians letter on of course the New Testament writers is something that has to be studied in all human sphere and endeavor. Here we have seen that earthly authorities. Now Paul makes an assumption which is rooted. He says that look, they are not a terror for good works. Paul, come around. Will you not be afraid? Will you dare not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good and you have praise of men. Now this assumes the society, but I think that is beyond that.

I think in the mind of Paul, he's writing to the Christians in Rome who are under a tyrant and he said, look, this is to regulate us, etc. Etc. And all that. It comes with a lot of interpretation with it. But the truth is where we should go here is the fact that Paul, just like Jesus said, this power is from above. Paul, right. So where can we explain this? And Deuteronomy, chapter 32. Like I said, I'm going to give you a counter narrative to this. Maybe not this month, maybe sometime in the year. There's a counter narrative to it. It's an argument that doesn't change it, at least not yet. And I doubt it will. But it gives you a broader way to think. Now, verse eight and that I can't tell you. Is there any book?

It's just a professor and I, we had a conversation on it for a while last year. So he sent me, I sent him my own thesis on this and he sent me quite, quite some material I had to read over the months. I just Finished. I think it was December or so. Look at seven. Remember the days of old. Consider the years of many generations. Ask thy father, and he will show you the elders and the authorities. So this is something that happened before, right? Then it says, when the Most High. Look at that word, most High. Please just circle most high. Most high is host of Heaven language. Because, you know, remember we saw it in Psalm 89, where he says he's above the heavens, right? The who? The heavens can be compared to you. That's the Most High language.

So if I say most high. 1 Most high deals with supernatural beings. And Most High are also going to see deals with territories. When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. This is where the contention is, just like Genesis 6. 4. Now, I'm going to read this from the Septuagint. I know in this series we have gone through this again and again. Why it cannot be children of Israel? Because when this happened, Israel wasn't birthed. That's Genesis 11. I'll read the Septuagint for you. Remember days of old. Consider years of generations. Ask your father. He'll say to your elders.

And they'll tell you, when the mountain most High distributed nations, as he scattered the sons of Adam, he set up boundaries for the nations. Is that territories? Huh? According to the number of the angels of God. Septuagints. And the angels of God in Septuagint language were sons of God. Genesis 6, 4. And his people, Jacob, became the portion of the law. Israel, an allotment of his inheritance. So he's saying to us here that the nations were given over to the host of heaven. That's angels of God. Sons of God. The nations were given over to the host of heaven. Look at another thing in Jesus, chapter four. Take it therefore. Good Heed unto yourselves. For you saw no manner of similitude on the day that the Lord spake unto you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire. That's Exodus 19.

Lest you corrupt yourselves and make you a graven image. The solicitude of any figure, likeness of male or female, likeness of any beast that is on the earth. Earth, likeness of any winged fowl that flies in the air. Now look at the word likeness, which means we're looking at the word. That's the word. Selem. This is actually not selem. This is demuth, which is to show a picture to Draw out an image, then say, the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground. Likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth. Now pause. Is this Genesis? Very well. So in Genesis, in the supernatural world context, this is the same thing. Look at 19. Unless thou lift up your eyes to heaven. Very clear, right? Okay. And when you see the sun, the moon, this is Genesis, right?

And the stars and all the host of heaven should be driven to worship them. Why is he warning them about worshiping them? Why, something must have happened. And serve them. Now pay attention. Remember, we read in 32 now that the most High divided the nations to the sons of God, right? Now look at this one. It says, which the Lord thy God are divided unto all nations under the whole level. Which means that he had given all the nations over to these beings, but not you, okay? But the Lord had taken you and brought you out. That means he brought you out of that, even out of Egypt, to be unto him a people of inheritance to this day. So he's saying to you clearly that, look, you are a chosen generation. You are a holy nation to the other nations.

The Lord divided them to the sons of God. Now notice that Israel came out of Adam being called from the nation of Genesis 12. But something happened in Genesis 11, which is what we're going to look at very quickly again. Learning something. Are you learning something, guys? Now watch this. Look at verse 16. They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods, with abominations provoking him to anger. They sacrificed the devils not to burden to God whom they knew not. New gods that came up newly, whom your fathers feared not. So I read it to you from the subject, the sacrifice to demons and not to God. So pause on that word, demons, because it's our next lane of study, all right? And to those whom they had not known, new recent ones have come whom their fathers had not known.