Second Timothy, chapter 3 and 16. I won't say 15. All Scripture is given by the Spirit of God. I want to run quick by the Spirit of God has prompted him for doctrine, for a proof of correction, for instruction in righteousness. I would say this is the Old Testament. And if you are teaching the Old Testament, you have to retain its context. The context is the supernatural world. Now, the ancient writer was, and let's say Moses, the ancient writer, is writing from the supernatural world. We said that the law of Moses is about the temple, tabernacle actually. And the tabernacle was an interpretation of the supernatural world. Hebrews 8. 5, Right? He says, he was told, see that you build according to pattern. And we also said that Noah's ark was not a ship, was not a vessel, it was a temple.

We've done that study here already. So in Hebrews 8. 5, Which is Exodus 25:40, build according to what was shown you. What was shown you in the mount, which is this is God's picture of the earth. And you know, when he built that tabernacle, he says it's filled with the glory of God. It says, the whole earth shall be filled with the glory. Which means that what God showed Moses was what the earth was meant for. So when he built that tabernacle, which is meant to be the dwelling place of supernatural beings, right? He's saying that is the picture of the earth. So we said the temple of tabernacle is the mini earth or the window to God's earth.

So if temple is the picture God has for the earth or tabernacle, it means therefore that the world, the physical world as we see today is falsely in supernatural world. So if the law of Moses was about the temple, because that's part of what we're going to study going forward on the post service teaching, it was about the temple. Everything that Moses was about was the tabernacle was a tabernacle. I used temple very careless, because he didn't build. Temple is a fixed place. Tobacco is a moving tent. But they are the same. One is the predecessor of the other one. So if the writers of the New Testament we have seen now the question again, did they retain that context? Did they write what the Old Testament writer wrote? How come they were not as exhaustive? We said that is codified language.

Why didn't they break it down? We have said that the codified silence is a concept we have developed again to say that when a writer. Let me take it all over again, Codified language is, I'm writing from book A. You have book A. So there's no reason why I should quote the whole of book A. And book A is where I teach from every church service. So I would rather just make references, allusions to book A. Because you already read book A. So I'm just explaining the Book A that you already have. I am not quoting out of context because you read book A and we study Book A. So when I say things like redemption, my Cody Bible language captures the Exodus. What I say was like new creation. The Greek is Styxis.

Okay, but your mind is bara Hebrew, which means to shape something out, to give it a purpose. When I say new kainos is Greek, but Chadash is where I'm taking it from to repair, to renew, to restart. So I'm using codified language. And usually a codified language carries a whole world with it, stories, characters. A single phrase used by a New Testament writer can take you to through the 39 books of the Old Testament. Just a phrase. If I say God Theos in the Greek, the Old Testament says Elohim. And there's no one singular being called Elohim in the Old Testament. I say Lord, which is Adonai or Yahweh. It takes you through the entire Old Testament because look at something like, look at Revelation 1 for example.

I remember one of these Christocentric boys two years ago was saying that Jesus is not God like that he's the son of God. I said, it's not because you have heard with me. How can you be know me? I'll be talking like that. He's not, don't even know what son of God means. He says God is the father and all that. I said, you just come for camp meeting 2020, you won't come for 2021 show 2023. Just like some of us will miss classes. You come the first day, they come the day before the exam. How do you want to pass? There are kind of people that will see their results. Say 40, say praise the Lord 40.

You know, there are some people when they are preaching, the kind of preaching that when they teach a text is like, let my people go, just explain it. We have it. Have what? Is our only me. You cannot say. You cannot say we don't have it, but what do we have? All things that let my people go teaching. When you came the first day, I came the last day. They say what's going to come out? What's going to come out? Someone told me say I have a preacher. I've been preaching this evening, sir. They say, which audition of Levitia should I take? Wait for the answer now and then which of these I take in leave 1. I looked at him. I said, since commit is songs, When you get there, just sing.

Me overnight I. I went to bed past two, I woke up to four. I came for first service, second service. You, what's up? You, you okay? You just be singing. Sing there you are not serious. So you go and preach nonsense. You say, where do you get it from? He's rabbi. He's rabbi that taught me this rubbish. Revelation 1, verse 4. I saw the guy. I said, look, John said to the seven churches, he's from him. Look at this. Which is, which was, which is to come. I said, you know what he has just done here? He has Split up. Exodus 3:14. That's what Yahweh means. I am. That I am. I will be what I will be say, oh, that's Yahweh. That's the person who appeared to Moses. So the Old Testament author is the teacher of a New Testament writer.

Did you get that? That's the teacher. Did they retain it? So he said, codified language. Now what is codified silence? Now we said, and we're going to have to say this louder, that no writer of the Bible was writing to you. They didn't have you in mind. Who were they writing to? I showed you something in the first service that we saw. For example, Corinth, Acts 18. Paul went to Corinth and was there for about two years. And he was teaching them. He now writes a letter. I now showed you that the essence of that letter is not to teach them the whole of God's word. It is a particular thing that was going on in Corinth. And he said it in verse 10 and 11 and 12, that there is division among you. That was what he was resolving in 16 chapters.

So there will be nothing he would teach exhaustively because the issue was unity. Are you following what I'm saying here? But what is common to all the letters the Old Testament. So if he doesn't say something in his letters, it's not that he has not taught it in the churches, because he will be silent on such issues that he assumes he has explained and taught you. So the codified silence, an assumption by a writer that his audience has been taught in other forum or fora on other issues. Okay, for example, there are only two books where Paul talks about married couples, basically about husband wife, Colossians and Ephesians. He doesn't talk about it. You Won't find it in Romans, even though it looks like romance. Is that in 1st Corinthians? Is that in 2nd Corinthians? Not at all.

Peter talks about the married people in 1 Peter, but not in 2nd Peter. The writer of Hebrews goes around it. First, second, third, John, don't talk about marriage at all. Are you saying he didn't teach marriage? So the codified silence is an assumption by the writer that you, the reader of his letter, his regular audience. So the principle of where the New Testament is silent has a lot of exceptions. Another exception is if it is in the Old Testament, study it first. Find out whether it is Old Testament cultural or is theology. It cannot be wished away because it's not found in the Epistles. Am I making sense? That's the concept of the codified sacrament. We're going to build on it much more. So we have said that the New Testament author retained it. The context of the world. Sun, moon and stars.

Look at Psalm 8 again and go to Hebrews 2, Hebrews 1 and Psalm 8. O Lord our God. Go to Hebrews 2, Hebrews 1. Sorry. O Lord our God. How excellent is your name in all the earth. Now when we say name, we mean what? His presence. Okay, good. Who hath set thy glory above the heavens, out of the mouth of babes and sucklings? Thou hast ordained strength because of thy enemies. Thou hast. Thou might still the enemy and the avenger. That's the movie, right? Right. When I consider the heavens now, the heavens will be the New Testament heavenlies. Right? Heavenly beings. Good. Or even use the italicized heavenly places, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which you have ordained. Now look at what he now does. What is man, that thou art mindful of him.

And the Son of Man, that I will be saying now, we should be king. We should be kingd. If we think that. The psalmist here, David, is saying that when I look at the stars that don't talk, moon and say. I say, what is man? Can you and the stars interact? What is man? He's talking about the supernatural beings, the people. In job 38, 7, that says the morning stars rejoiced, the morning stars sang for joy. So he now says, what is man? That they are mindful of him. The Son of Man, that you visit him. You have made him a little lower than now. You know this verse 5. You can put in bright the sun, moon and stars. Right? Right. That's the angels there, or Elohim. And you have crowned him. With great glory and honor.

So this is the supernatural world context in Psalm 1. That's Hebrews one. Sorry. I'm sorry for that. Hebrews one. God. Okay, okay, let's look at verse four. Being made so much better than the angels at their inheritance, obtained a more excellent name than they were. We've already said that angels or the hosts of heaven were reduced to the word angels. In New Testament language. We said the reason was just before the incarnation of Jesus, there was worshiping of angels. And it was now an attempt by Bible writers to not refer to Jesus as that angel of the Lord because of the emergence of the cultic practices, because the Old Testament talks about angel who is God that is worshipped. So rather than breaking down the sons of God narrative, all the different synonyms for the host of heaven, the New Testament just says angels.

But if you go to the text that they are reading from the Old Testament, you will see. See it as host of heaven in verse 5. For unto which of the angels, or let's say host of heaven, said the attendant, thou my son, this day have I begotten thee. And again I will be to him a father, and he will be to me a son. And again, when he brings in the first begotten into the world, he says, let all the angels of God worship him. So he's talking about the host of heaven. So in chapter two, what he now says in verse five. For unto which unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak but one in a certain place, testifying what is man, that thou art mindful of him?

Nor the Son of man, that you visit him, you have made him a little lower than the angels. You crown him with glory and honor, and this set him over the works of your hands. So the that sun, moon and stars of Psalm 8 has been written here by this author, the writer of Hebrews as the angels. So the resurrection of Jesus was not. Now, let's don't forget what we said before. It wasn't God conquering the disobedient spirits. No, it wasn't his God over all. And they know it wasn't all the conquests that were found in the Scriptures. Why was it that the question should now be, but if it's about supernatural beings, why was it men that were fighting? That was what God was asserting. He has placed man over the works of his hands.

So to keep to his word, man will be the one fighting and defeating the gods. How? By the Hizar, by the help of God. But the person that you will see in the forefront will be man. So in the death of Jesus, well, he says, all authority is given to me. Now, God can't be saying that. He can't be saying that as God. He's saying that as a man. So in the above, the host of heaven today we have a man who is the Lord of hosts, right? And the second Adam, who in the garden of God sits over the works of his hands. That's the issue, you know, in this series we said, why did God become a man? What was the point? So that he can come and die and take blood to the Father.

The death of Jesus, Resurrection can be interpreted much more as conquest than pacifying angry God. It was conquest, a victory, an assertion of the ultimate plan and purpose of God, of man in the earth. So what happened from the cross to the throne was conquest. Jesus ascended the throne as Lord of hosts. No Lord of hosts is eternal. He ascended the throne as a man identified in the Lord of hosts and for mankind. So this gives us a pattern we're going to see in this series where we can assert that authority over disobedient spirits. Rebellious beings, call them angels in the earth today. So the battle is for the earth. Isn't that very clear? So when we sing the song, the earth is your rest, place, and we're saying we are preaching the gospel because the battle is for the earth.

That theology of God just packed the earth away, that the real issue is heaven. And he said, what about the heaven? It's the reward of the believer. So may you not lose your reward. So what's my reward? Heaven is your reward. I say, okay, so how is it my reward? So for thousands of years you just be worshiping God and that's your reward. You be in the clouds and just be singing and singing. God will help you. The earth is the issue. The earth is the Lord's. Psalm 24 and the fullness thereof. That's it. And he calls the earth his holy healed, his holy mountain. So look at first Peter 3. Is this same narrative of heaven that makes us have the Second Coming teaching. Jesus is coming to take us away. Take us away to where? It's coming.

To take you away to heaven. Because he's going to just throw bomb or banga into the earth. Look at 1 Peter 3. Now this one Peter 3 is a very difficult text. There are very few texts I've seen in my life. When I was covering this morning, I was still thinking, you know, it's a very difficult Text. Now this is really where I was going today, but I've given you enough reason to think 4 Peter 3 and verse 19 by which also he went and preached unto the Spirit in prison. Now look at verse 18. For Christ also has once suffered for sins and just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached unto the Spirit in prison.

Now what is Peter saying here? Like I said, it's a very difficult text but I gave you a background so that you can think. We're going to look at the three possibilities of this text. What could this text refer to? It's very difficult because of the different ways you can look at it. I have a solution to it, but I won't say it today. What exactly happened here? Don't forget that in the context of Peter here, he's saying being put to death by the flesh, verse 18, but quickened by the Spirit, by which he went to the Spirit in prison. So we have three possibilities about ancient, I mean, well known, should I say church. Father Martin Luther once said that it's one of his most difficult texts. And I can say the same thing because it's quite.

It presents a lot of tendencies that could be met. So the first one is that the first interpretation that can be given to it is that Jesus went to what you can call eddies or hell and he went to preach to those who live in the time of Noah and bring them to salvation. Now this is making me smile because I had a friend, I still have a friend, you know. So his dad, I remember his dad passed on and then we used to find. So the dad was a Christian at some point. Christian, Christian. They decided to read books into the occult. Then I think after a while he started to read all these books by this Latter Day Saints where they will say that Jesus is angel and stuff like that. So I used to read those books.

In fact, even this my friend started saying that I should look at this book that has some sense me, I just saw that a book after Paul, the one by Paul. I don't understand. This was 1994. 94, Yeah. So when did that pass on? You know? And he passed on. Suddenly this, my friend really was depressed apart from the loss of the Father. It was the fact that he wasn't sure that the Father was in heaven. So he now began to study. I remember this was this very important because he now began to study that is it possible for A man after he had died. Hebrews 9:27. Without doing this. When he died after this judgment. I beg that tell people to be born again. Leave that so not telling People died tonight.

Those who plan to be born again at 12 died at 11:55. What kind of preaching guys, let's wait till then. So he now began to study. But I think then because he really got depression now all of us had to somehow it inspired us. We're. We now started to really study what he was saying that he's supposed to somebody that died that since is there a contact between those who are passed on they just go. So when I look at text that. That Matthew 27, you know, were there interactions then Did Moses and Elijah literally in a vision show up in Matthew 17 those questions are coming, you know. And then because he had gone wide that it's possible for the dad. Then he now got into supplication. What I'm talking about happening about one year. We were talking scriptures. Talking scriptures.

He says, is it possible that somebody had already gone to hell? He thought the dad went to hell. What bailed him out was when I reschooled him on the doctrine of the salvation of God. That was what built him up. He was really depressed. You know, I don't know whether I think it's not good to think somebody that excuse you has gone to hell. But you don't care. It's not a good thing that hell. And professor, there's no fire ahead. What difference does it make? Is that not fire enough? So when I began to study is it possible to praise somebody? I'm telling you this really got all his friends to really study this thing. I'm talking from 2096. 26 Or 95. I think he's 96 because Larry was around then. That's from 96. That's 27 years ago.

We were where was the abode of the dead Sheol. I was saying Jesus, do you study all of this Sheol Hadith, there's another Adol. Because he had gone deep then we now started talking in Greek and Hebrew alone. He was saying that can he pray out somebody from hell? That is it a damnation? You know. So the what got it out was now saying let him explain salvation. Like a friend was saying about broad talks. When you are talking to Brahtox and you are. He doesn't give up arguments. He will say I've heard. If he says I've heard he's lying. How you know he has helped you argue, but you Heard me, We say, I've heard. So when we argue, broth hooks will go around and run around and you can argue with him for details on the idea. I thought he had accepted.

Like I was saying, after about five hours, I said, I'm tired. So we now knew what the secret was. If he's talking and you're arguing and arguing, the way to end the argument say Brother Hagin said, when you say where? That's the end of all strikes. So even if you don't just tell a lie, Brother Haggis said, where say he name? So what goes? But the point was what God was that we said, look, when a man has received salvation, right? That he one guy like that, he was attending one of these churches in Nigeria, was a leader. So when heard that, he said no. So we took him on. And when you come to our council, all we're doing with our life was reading the Bible. We took him on overnight. The next day the guy read through scriptures.

Three of us with you, we are in trouble. And when we're done, he stood on the table, he said, I'm leaving that church today. He left. The lady who was supposed to marry told her, look, if you tell her, I won't marry you, bro. You said God told you said no, tell me God grand girl too much. But he got us to say, can you supplicate a man out of hell? To hell? Are you talking about that supplication is to have great power with God. You're a priest with God that you can supplicate the impossible. So he led us to this text. If Jesus did Jesus go to the Spirit to preach and the word is Caruso. That means that people that have died still have hope of salvation. That's how we began to study.

For almost a year, while I can't get trousers, we're studying, asking questions. What bailed us out, like I said, of course, today we have better answers was the fact that salvation is received. I remember one time like that they had to sit some people down. They are not even from the Orthodox church. I will not explain that what happens to people who lived, for example, in Africa before the gospel came. Want to hear that one? I've explained it to you before, what happened to them and the gospel was not preached. I had to debunk one by those things can be exhaustive, because in some people's minds it's troubling them. It has never troubled me before, because what I can see, I don't talk about you. Have been thinking, thinking what would have happened? What would have happened? I said stay with the written word.

You will explain it. Is that clear? So this is why this text can be troubling. Whichever answers you get, it leads to another question. So get ready. Did he go to preach to the people in the days of Noah who were rebellious? Many of the immediate church fathers like Origen, Cyril of Alexandria, St. John of Damascus, very close to the first century church subscribed to this. Now let me put the caveat. I know some people quickly assert things. The way you mention somebody from the second century church, that is really rubbish. There are a lot of heresies in that age too. So stick with the written word. Now the second view is, yes, Christ indeed. And if you look at this second view, I've explained it in series before. Christ indeed preached. Because you can't remove Christ from this conversation.

Christ indeed preached to the contemporaries of Noah, or let's say the people in the days of Noah. But he did it through Noah. So what I give to this, because when I look at the verbs, I will say that by which he went and preached to the spirits that are now in prison, which sometimes were disobedient when one's long suffering of God within days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, wherein filled that his eight souls were saved by water. Now the assumption here is that verse 19 was referring to the days of Noah. What if it was not? Because Noah could be an allusion or a motif in that conversation and not the subject matter. Are you following me? All right, like I said, I'll just open them up for you to think.

I'm not going to be decisive yet, but just for you to think. But like I mentioned, any conclusion will lead to a particular consequence. Very vital. The question really is spirit in prison. That's the real issue. Spirit in prison. If you follow the pattern of the St. Peter in 2nd Peter 2 and 4, where he mentioned the angels that sinned, cast them down to hell called Tartarus in the Greek, and deliver them to the chains of darkness reserved to judgment or Jude 7, even as no, Jude 6, the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he reserved the everlasting chains under darkness to the judgment of the great day. So this is a closest or a very close explanation of spirits in prison. Close. So the question will be, Are we talking about human means? The first two narratives.

The second one, I've explained it in the spiritual grace, salvation. Those in the days of Noah will refer to human beings now that's the first two. That those people who were disobedient in the days of Noah, Jesus went to hell. When we say hell is not a particular place. Hell just means outside the earth, right? Supernatural world, outside the earth, outside heaven, outside the earth, under the earth. We've done that study already here. So did he descend to that place to preach to them? Like I said, this will leave to us a possibility of an afterlife taste of salvation. But we can debunk it now and pay attention very. Are you here? Aha. So we have three scenarios. Now I know right now and I'm going to tell you. I'm going to confess my sins.

Your mind is already biased because we have done a whole session explaining supernatural beings and his resurrection. So I know what you are thinking about. But look at the death of Jesus. Look at the death of Jesus. It was not natural, it was about the Spirit. I know. So I know you are biased. Still remain biased. It's all right. But wait. Whatever this is about what happened from the cross to the throne in the three days. So one did Jesus go to preach to those in the days of Noah who were disobedient? And you know, 1st Peter 3 says the long suffering of God is salvation and etc. Etc. Like that verse 20. Why Abu Kahn and all that? Or was it that?

Now the expression I've given before now and I can go by it again, but because of time in the same first Peter, why is it probable that he's talking about Noah himself in First Peter 1, for example, of course this is like I'm going to. I'm going to. I'm going to cheat you now. I'm going to. I'm going to do 419 for you. I will say Paul also used the word Christ, comparative with Christ in Romans 10 in Paul's interpretation of Zombiel 30 and it says in verse 6, but the righteousness which is of faith speaks on this wise say not in thy heart who shall ascend to heaven, that is to bring Christ down from above. Now this is Deuteronomy 30, 12, 13. There is no Christ in that text.

He's talking about the Word, the message who shall descend to the deep, that is to bring up Christ again from the dead. Again, there is no Christ in that text, but the Word is nigh thee in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of it which you preach. So Paul is equating the message of deliverance given to Israel in Egypt as Christ. Like I said, I'm doing four one night for you. What I mean by that is that I am not using Peter, I'm using Paul. That Paul used Christ to represent an event that was before the cross and involved the word preached. So in 1 Peter 1, Are you learning something?

Like I said, I probably gave you that story of my friend so that you will know one of the things I teach you when I teach in Bible schools. I say that every submission has a consequence. Think about it before you make has a consequence. If you make a statement. That's why you have to be careful in teaching scriptures. Never let anybody drag you into saying something. Make a statement, yes or no? There's no yes or no. Are there definite conclusions? Oh sure. But don't do yes or no. You must be patient enough to explain some things. Don't everybody drag you. Say yes or no. Are you saying yes or now?

First Peter 1, verse 10, of which the province have inquired and certainly whoops, prophesied of the grace that should come unto you, searching what or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ. Now the same Peter now says, the spirit of Christ which was in them, this signified what he testified beforehand, the sufferings of Christ and the glory that should follow. Now he said that those prophets, right in their words, had the spirit of Christ. So this submission can easily lead us to that conclusion that 1 Peter 3:19 was lower. Let me see how we are following this. Like I said, there's already an explanation. Come on, let me show you. Are you getting this already expression in so good salvation? But where the challenge is that the term spirit in prison is used for something else.

That is where the challenge is 1st Peter 3:19. Is it a reference to the days of Noah? Like the men you know, the days of Noah had this global. Now global in Bible just means corporate global rebellion. And as it were Genesis 6, 8 and 9, Noah was singled out, of course his family by association, part of those who were rescued by the ark or the temple of God. Sorry, but the challenge is the term spirit in prison. Now like I said, I deliberately gave you a background of the death of Jesus before we go to this point.

Now in second Peter 2, so that you know the sequence, Peter says in verse four, God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them to Tartarus, that's hell and delivered them to the chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment and spared not the old world, but saved Noah. Are you following saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in flood upon the world of the ungodly now, can we see a comparison? Huh? Please talk to me. Now, the emphasis in second Peter were the angels that sinned. Is that Genesis 6, the sons of God who went to the daughters of men. Now, that's another controversial area where people believe it's the sons of Saint. I think it's a ridiculous argument. I had a man like that. We talked for almost like five days on it last year.

He just said, well, I just think that this is very clear. There's no. Jesus said that angels don't marry and not give you marriage and all that. And I said, well, what Jesus was saying doesn't answer what I just said here, because it's clear that Genesis 6 from the septic are the sons of God and the sons of God. There's angels in that narrative. So if the Septuagint uses angels, I can read that to you again. And we've done this before, that the Septuagint kept using angels and sons of God together, Remember? Okay, it says in verse two, it happened that when humans began to become numerous upon the earth and they had daughters, the angels of God having seen the daughters of human. This is Septuagint, the Bible Peter most likely used.

They were beautiful, took for themselves women from home, they picked up. The Lord God said, my birth will certainly not reside in these humans for very long because they are flesh, but their days shall be 120 years. Now, Giants were upon the earth in those days and after that whenever the sons of God. So he used sons of God for the same angels, which is very consistent with the Greek tradition of the Old Testament. So we're left with something that 1 Peter 3 definitely was talking about, the time of Noah. Whether it's an allusion or not is a bit tricky because in second Peter 2 now talks about Noah again in the same breath. Are you following this? In the same breath, they were forced to think or rethink that text, not necessarily come to an eventual conclusion.

But we think now, how do we solve these textual issues? The first thing is to sit where the audience sat. So I'll sit where they sat. Why did Peter write this letter? If you ask me strangely, this is very funny. What was the. I remember a man, you know, was asking me, very elderly theologians, probably in the ministry for over 50 years. He now said to me, he said, we're talking about revivals, and I'm still waiting for the day I'm going to explain revivals, not now. And he said to me, he said, chris, what should people call revivals in the pentecostal? World. He says it's rebellion. I said, no. Move of God, move of the Spirit. He said. Wait, I said, you like Paul, I know you are a poor person. Your word is the core thing that Paul taught.

If you look at all Paul's letters, First Corinthians, Second Corinthians, Romans, Ephesians, you look at Colossians and if you stretch it further, you see Paul's letters were always about unity. Unity, he said. Now can you call that the fruit of these revivals? I went numb, says unity. Union of God and mankind. Right. I was critical. Heaven and earth. He will bring everything together. Ephesians 1:10. In Christ Jesus, unity. Now that's a way to read Paul's letters is solving the unity problem. Those of you who have that problem now with get plenty. So what is the context? Why did Peter write these letters? Who was right? What was in their mind? Can we get into their mind? We can. 1 Peter 1:6. Something very consistent wherein you greatly rejoice. Though now for even be you are in heaviness through manifold temptation.

The trial of your faith being much more precious than gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire, might be found in praise and honors. So one thing is clear, they were going through persecution. Chapter 2, verse 12. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evil doers, they may by a good works, which they shall behold glorify God. The day of visitation, verse 15, it says so it's the will of God, that with well doing you may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men. In fact, verse 14. Unto godmothers, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, for the praise of men that do well. Look at verse 18 to 20 servants with subject to your masters, and with all fear.

Now if many Christians today, they judge people, if they read this, particularly those of them who are always attacking the government, if they read this one, they will hate Peter in the midst of opposition. You are telling them to submit. You are telling them to honor the king. Never he will die, you know. He says, look, verse 17. Honor all men. Love the brother of fear. God. Honor the king. He's not the king of kings. Servants you suffer to your masters with all fear. Not only to the good and gentle hey, but to those who are forward. This is thank worthy. If a man for conscience towards God, endure grief suffering wrongfully for the glory. Is it if when you are buffeted for your faults, you shall take it patiently.

But if when you do well and suffer for it, take it personally, this is acceptable to God. For where until were you called? Because Christ also suffered for us, giving us an example that we should follow his full step who did not sin, neither was God found in his mouth he didn't return curse to curse, he didn't do so it was okay. Who then he was reviled not again when he was suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously who his own self bore our sins. So he's given the context of a church in persecution, right? Chapter three, Verse nine Not rendering evil for evil, reigning for reigning, but controversial blessing, knowing that you are there called there unto God, that you shall inherit a blessing.

Verse 13 who is he that will harm you if you be followers of that which is good? 14 But if you suffer for righteousness sake, happy are ye. And be not afraid of their terror neither be troubled. He now says, look, sanctify the Lord God in your heart. Be ready to always give answer to every man ask you for a reason of the who that is in you with meekness and fear having a good conscience whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accused your good conversation in Christ. It is better if the will of God be so that you suffer for well doing, than for evil doing.

Chapter four, Verse one For as much then as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, harm yourself likewise with the same mind, for it has somebody in the flesh hath ceased from sin. Verse 4 wherein they think it strange that you run not with them to the same excess of wrath, speaking evil of you. Verse 6 He says, in this course the gospel was supposed to tell them that they might be judged according to the men in the flesh, and live according to God in the spirit.

Then verse 12 Beloved, think it not strength concerning the faith trial, which is to try you as though some strengthening that happened to you but rejoice in as much as you are partakers and most of them we don't read this kind of rejoice of Christ's sufferings for when his grace shall be revealed, he says, you may be glad also with exceeding joy, if you repose for the name of Christ. Happy are you for the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you on their part it's evil spoken upon your part he's glorified. But that gives you a caveat. Let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief. That's not persecution, evil doer, or as A busy body in other men's matters.

He says, if a man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on his behalf. For the time is come that the judgment must begin at the house of God. And if first begin at all, they shall be hand of them that obey not. The gospel. Chapter 5, verse 1 8. Be sober, be vigilant, because you advance to the devil as a rule walks about seeking whom resist steadfast in faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. He now says in 10. The God of all grace, who had called us into eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish you, strengthen and say to you. Some ministers now took the word settle. I'm not joking. They said, God will settle you.

He will settle you. Can you imagine? This is about suffering for the Gospel. So without doubt, if you were in the audience of Peter, what? What is in your mind? Persecution, right? Persecution from authorities, persecution from civil authorities as touching the Gospel. Is that very clear? Good. This will guide us. So if this is true, persecution from civil authorities, go back to first Peter three. I'll move as quickly as possible. 17. Again, it's better if the will of God be so that you suffer for well doing than for evil doing. For Christ also once suffered for sins the just for the unjust, that he may bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. So the background of this again is a suffering of Christ compared to the suffering of the Christian. That is the background.

So let's backtrack a bit. The suffering of Christ, was it human or supernatural or both? Both. Good. So it involved human agency. But it was primarily from the supernatural world. The princes of this world, and they know it first Corinthians 2. They wouldn't have crucified the Lord of glory. So we have a thinking. Is this about Noah, the people in the days of Noah? I'll leave it to another time, but I'll just give him to think. Or Noah was just used as an aside or like an allusion. Now think about this. In verse 18, when he said he went and preached to the spirit prison. The word Caruso means to announce. Now, this word Caruso is often identified with the gospel. Now it is not every time that the gospel preached is meant to save.

Remember in Mark 16, he that believes not shall be damned. Are you following me? Now, when you go back to the Old Testament and take the word bazaar, sometimes what the basa, the career of the news just says that we have won is to inform you that something has happened or to declare an existing victory. Now this is just for today. Is this writer saying that between the cross to the throne, that when Jesus rose from the dead and he led captivity captive. Ephesians 4, 8 and 9. All right. That he announced to those disobedient spirits that he had triumphed over them. Now do you know why this is important? The audience are thinking we are under persecution. This is caused by civil authorities. Peter is saying, yes, Jesus was the same way. He suffered civil authorities, right?

Cephas, the high priest, Herod and Pilate. But we know there was a supernatural world dimension to it. So pay attention. Is this writer Peter saying that Jesus by his resurrection has triumphed over all that are persecuting you? And then he infers that the same way he did it to the spirit. Imprisonment. All right. Who have been conquered that we are announcing the same thing? Because in the days of Paul, when you preach the gospel with a counter narrative, when you preach the gospel, you say Jesus is Lord, not Caesar. It was to tell those authorities that whatever is behind your throne has been spoiled by Jesus. Is this what Peter is saying? Now look at the conclusion. So I'll leave you at that in verse 22. Now listen again. By which he went and preached to the spirits in prison, which sometimes were disobedient.

When once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, where he filled, that his eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us. Not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience was God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Let's say 22 together. Who is gone into heaven and is on the right hand of God. Angels. Stop. Can those angels and authorities be those spirits watch and powers being made subject to him? So the spirits in prison pay good attention. Are they referring directly to these supernatural beings? Or it's in consonance union with the men that were used or just the supernatural beings? If we follow the pattern of Paul's writings, the triumph of Jesus was never to shame men.

So the triumph of Jesus was not in any way to put any seal on the defeat of anybody a human being? No, it was about the host of heaven to bind the strong man. So we have a whole lot to think on in the spirit in prison might not be, should not be, could not be, or are not the men in the days of Noah rather the supernatural beings, that the death of Jesus asserts the authority of man over those beings, in spite of what happened in the days of Noah. Because the days of Noah was also called vexation, persecution. So by likening it, you know, Jesus also use it Also in Matthew 24 to persecution, affliction, tests and trials. He's saying that the death of Jesus confirms you have authority over the agencies of tests and trials.

Are you following what I'm saying here? So therefore spirits in prison, there might not be human beings. We're going to look at it together again. But we have quite some evidence from our study so far that the spirits in prison are the supernatural beings. That is consistent. First Corinthians 6, though you know that you judge angels is consistent. Hebrews 1 is very consistent in the death of Jesus. And maybe I should add this. It is almost unlikely because the use of spirit by New Testament author. There is hardly a New Testament author that referred to man as spirit. None. They can refer to the makeup of a man as spiritual, but they never did. Not Paul, not Peter, not John. So the human spirit for those men is very unlikely. We have not concluded, and I hope you have not.

Amen when you say, so, therefore my grandfather can be saved. So that's the context here. So coming back again to say, I will close on this, not immediately, that the earth is a supernatural world. I'm saying to you that this earth is a supernatural world, the way we know it is. What does God say about the earth? He calls it his temple. He says it is his holy hill. It's supernatural. Look at second Samuel. That's second Kings five. So consider this. I mean, I mean on Saturday I will. I'll pick up on this and then we'll do some second Kings five. Look at that Naaman story. When the azi had done all the other. When Naaman came to Elisha said, look, go and wash yourself. The nice thing here is very clear. He asked him to go to Jordan to wash himself.

Second Kings five to wash himself. And he did. Because he was forced and insulted. He went and as he was seven times. And that narrative goes back to Joshua. We're at the same place Israel crossed. And several times they entered by circling and praising God. Seven times they entered into the land of Canaan through Jericho. He told him to do the same thing. Now those symbolisms will remind you of something God has done before. Now this is what is called gospel. That is, I'm reminding you of an exploit. God has done something he brought down the gods of Canaan. So I'm reminding you now he's talking to an idol worshiper. So the guy understood it. You know what Rahab said? He said, we have heard what the God of Israel did in Egypt. So he's hearing it. Okay, go and wash.

The seventh time, his entire body was cleansed. When that happened, he went back and offered gifts. But we usually miss something here. And the man said, I don't want. So I know there's a God. Look at what he said in 15. I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now, therefore, I pray. Now this is an idol worshiper speaking. Take a blessing of thy servants. And. And then Elisha said, as the Lord liveth before whom I stand, I receive none yet will take it. But he refused. The Naaman says, shall there not then I pray thee be given to thy servant. Two moons burden of the earth, for your servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering, verse 17, nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord. Now, the two things he has said.

Is that a confession for salvation? He has said two things. There is none other God. That is what salvation is. He said, and I worship no other God. So he took the dust of where Elisha was and said, I'm going to take it where I am the dust, and I begin to worship Yahweh. He now says something else which is intriguing. He said, but this thing. Pardon thy servants, say my master, because he's under. Someone goes to the house of Raymond to worship me. If you. If you ask today's preachers, this one, hey. He said when he goes there, he leans on my hand. I walk with a Muslim. That's what he said. I walk with an idol worshiper, he said, so I borrow his eye. Heaven is your home. Go. I walk with another worshiper. I worship you. I've already confessed.

Jesus is my Lord. I watch. You have somebody who just was born again for a Muslim family, say, my parents. My husband says, go to the mosque. No, you have to do it for Christ's sake. And when they send out of the house, say, I live in one bedroom. My family don't worry, go and stay in church, not here. He says, hand lives on my hand and bows to the house of Rimmon. When I bow myself down, the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardoned thy servant. That is, if my master is bowing down and I say, I have to stand, sir, you know, I'm a new creature. And your job requires that you are covering him. You have to Also bow. Say you can't do it. You are in the house of Rimmon. Your heart has to remain pure.

Today we read for book of life. Elisha said, no problem, go in peace. No wallah by what he said. You know who he worships? You know, someone has showed you. You know, in my house. You now say, go public and declare your faith. He's the first son of a Muslim cleric, a man that is known all over Lagos. Declare your faith. You, you were born again in the Anglican family. Your persecution was. Which church you are attending? This one. Say you are what you have to say. If you go there and say this is me, L. You lose your. He said no. You have sworn allegiance to Yahweh. No problem. Can you see what it is? You'll be surprised of who are born again. Something I cannot see. On the pulpit they say that person because it doesn't come to your church.

Is your church in all the world? Can any church take everybody? No. I went to. I was praying in general camp and I saw the light of auditorium. I arrived where lights auditorium. You see that one parish somewhere in one corner people are going there. They are not going to the large one. You think they should have aroused. Come and join us. Come and join us. You see, people are born again. We are not born if you are not to be. Someone said, you can't be born again. All these are christocentric boys. You can't be born again and be uttering. Tom, look at him. Where are you just looking it up? Four years ago, Ordinary four years. You are making mouth all the tongues you spoke in four years. I mean, how. How many hours can you put in the tip?

He said there's no problem. Are you following my point? I will have resigned. So just go back to the bus. Sir, when I went to the house of Elisha, I received a new life. I can't walk here anymore. What's going to happen, sir? God will take. Are you going back to the pastor to take care of. Oh God. Ask me before you talk. Ask me before you say I resign. Before I resign. You have carried the moon and go. Are you following? I think I'll stop there. I'll take the. So there was the place of the earth. They knew the earth belongs to God. The earth is his place of worship. The earth. Every place in the earth is his place of worship. We saw somewhere. I'll take it again later on when Jesus got there, said, why have you come torment us?

Jesus went to places because the earth is the Lord. So this earth is a supernatural place. The earlier you know, the better. And the earlier you act that way. Now don't become. I know, for example, that Chelsea had a spiritual problem. The pastor said it yesterday. He said, how can you take a club from a man? I didn't give him money. Oh, I said, you are right. I was so happy. I dab is coming. I said, so be it. For those. Everything spiritual. They're not passing your books. I'm not passing my exams. Say spiritual. Do you read? Say every time I want to. I'm sleeping. You are stupid. I want to read. That's not a spiritual problem. That is a problem. That is spiritual. I'll continue again on Saturday.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/