Let us pray. Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for another time to study in your word. Thank you for the revelation you always bring our way. We ask this morning that you flood our understanding with yours, that in this teaching questions are answered, doubts are dissolved, myths and things that look like mysteries are unraveled together. As a church, Jesus Christ, your son, even as it sees us in him. In him we have clarity this morning and we have light, no shadows or darkness. And all this is glorified as we are edified, built up by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside those who hear us and the body of Christ. Amen. Server seat, second Timothy, chapter three and verse 23 and 16.

All scripture is given by inspiration of God, responsible for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness. All scripture here refers to the Old Testament books. Now this is so vital in the sense of Paul writing that to Timothy. And in second chapter he talks about preaching the Word. Preaching the Word is a reference point to the Old Testament message. We could just look at a few other things in the Book of Acts that constituted the entire sermon. So we have said that we shouldn't refer to it as Old Testament in as much as we know that's not what it is. But in our studies there should be the Hebrew Scriptures in the sense of the Scriptures written in the Hebrew language. The message doesn't differ at all. And that's important in the way that we understand.

So we have asked a few questions and does the New Testament retain the Old Testament context sense of it can't be said the cultural context, because the New Testament is in Greek majorly. So it can't be the same cultural context because language is different and that's why it's called new and old in the sense of the books. But does it retain the context theologically in the sense of the message it brings? Does it retain. If it does that also amount to the fact that it retains the worldview, which we can say the supernatural worldview of the Old Testament author? One of the things we have said is that the Old Testament is more supernatural than the New Testament. Whether that is what that will suffice remains to be properly asserted, because we might again be making an assumption.

So does it retain that worldview where we have to allow the New Testament author to let us know now what Paul has said? He says all Scripture. All Scripture. Basically. Let me just say something I was thinking about when I was coming. Was it my initial wasn't part of my notes, but I just had to say it. You know this phrase. And I said to us that, you know, like we said law. We said that this is the law, but it has exceptions. We say when the New Testament is silent, be silent and all that. And I said true, but is that an exception? What is that silence? Is that silence an assumption that the audience is an audience that is schooled in the Old Testament? Because if that is the silence, then it is not silent.

Because if we said this Testament author has an assumption, the assumption is that you are reading the Old Testament so he will not go over things. That's why we came up with the concept of the codified language, which is where a book summarizes another book without quoting all its contents. Now, you can't say that book is silent because it has an assumption that the reader has read where it is taking its theories and his theology and concepts from just like he said to Timothy, all scripture. Now, if you hear all scripture today, you will include Romans, First Corinthians, Matthew, Mark, Luke and John. But Peter, I mean, Timothy will not. Timothy's all scripture will be Genesis through to Malachi.

One of the things we are going to look at in this month is how reliable are books that are not in the 66 because we have references. We also say that scripture interprets itself. But have you observed that we've required books that were contemporaneous? What do I make contemporaries? Books that were written at the same time. The authors need to understand certain things they are saying. There are things, for example, that I'm going to say today, if you review them in 200 years time, the only way you understand is reading other books that were written at this time, other things that were said and done to understand the language, not the message, but the language. So scriptures interpreting itself is a rule, but has exceptions. Are you following what I'm saying? It has exceptions where I need to interpret grammar, culture. I will not.

I can't stick with that rule. I will have to go out of it and look at what it means in that, the context of that. For example, when you talk about the concept of the firstborn, or that's not even the one I was going to say the concept of the Tower of Babel. You know, on the face of it, when I say tower today is. Towers. The towers in that language is a ziggurat. And the ziggurat is a temple complex. So which you are not going to find in any book of the Bible, okay? But you are going to find it in the culture of those who wrote that text or the audience of that text. So that's why I said that rule has its exceptions. Okay, Exceptions where I need to go to culture, grammar, and all of that.

So when the submission that. When the New Testament is silent, the question is that is it silent or it uses the codified language. So in this month and maybe next, when we start looking at Old Testament books, again, are we referring to. Because I said there's codified language and I started to explain a codified silence. Now the codified silence is a bit different. It's a concept, another concept that we have, you know, evolved to study scripture. Is it silent or the author has that assumption that you read the Old Testament. Let's look at a word. A word. Let me give you another one. Well, do not be demon conscious or devil conscious. And you have quite a number of versions. Sometimes we just. The New Testament is Because again, we said that it's more modern than the Old Testament in the culture.

Look at one simple word that. Okay, years ago, if I'm going to talk about preaching the word huaji lizzo in the Greek, I usually will use town crier. You know, town crier. And I got that understanding from. From Vines dictionary. No, no, no. Thayers, Thayers. Then I think Vines. Then later on, of course, I did a bit of studying, but it wasn't. Something was lost on me then. I'm talking about way back and when I say town crier now, if you go to a city and you say town crier, they don't know what you're talking about. Town crier crying about what? Who beats him up? The town crier is a messenger of the king. Okay? And the moment you mention king, now, maybe many of you need to know this, because I know this being a prince, not supernatural one.

And I ask questions, okay, how did my family become a royal family? And then I was told that why. How people become royal families is that they must be. You must trace them to the origins of the town. Not necessarily the person who founded the town, but the person who secured the place, ensured that, you know, nobody, you know, just the king is a warrior. The king leads battles. The king conquers territories. So that's why people make claim to it. And of course, can go on and on to different historical backgrounds. I discovered that the Oyo empire in the Yoruba, you know, region was that strong. In fact, at that point, the Oyo empire was the kingdom of the Oyora. What I'm saying now is Ombusa fighting. But this no Never. We were there. So you see, it's about power.

So a king because you were able to conquer a territory. So trace that town crier. Town crier works for the king. King is a warrior who claims the territory. So when you look at the word, it therefore has war in the background. Are you following what I'm saying here? But you know, just a town crier may not be clear. So you must break it down. So when you are preaching the gospel, the word to preach has a background sound, war. So when we say gospel, for example, who does say good news? You know, Good news, Mark 16:15, go into all the world and preach the gospel. Good news. But the word is basar in the Hebrew. That's why we said that the words are falsely Hebrew before.

They are great, because the Greek is a translation or the Greek language of the Jews or the Hebrew Bible is a translation. The word basar means news, to announce news. You know, it's the reason why the New Testament adopts the root part, which is the word eu is because it's good, because Jesus is that king. But it's not necessary. The Hebrew doesn't have it as good news. Let me. So the game changer there is the Jesus interpretation, which is that we're going to also look at that maybe not immediately how the work of Christ. And this is why the Christocentric interpretation becomes very useful too. The Jesus manifestation as a man in itself, an interpretation of scripture. For example, you go to the Old Testament and look at the word vasar. Vasa simply means news.

And it is usually associated with war news from the way front. Look at First Samuel, chapter three, chapter 31. Sorry, news from the war front, verse eight and nine. It came to pass on the morrow when the Philistines came to strip the slain. And they found. They found Saul and his three sons falling in Mount Gibboa. They cut off his head and stripped off his armor and sent to the land of the Philistines roundabout to publish it. Which means to preach the gospel. That's the word here, basar. To preach the gospel in the house of their idols and amongst their people. All right, so it means to proclaim a news. So it's usually for is used by the military of those days. It's a war rhetoric to publish a news. Okay, from battle.

Now, second Samuel, chapter one, where a man came, okay, and in verse two, Okay, it came to pass a man of the camp from Saul with his close rent and head upon his head. And so it was. And where do you come from? Say I'm out of the camp of Israel. Verse 3. How was the matter? I pray thee, tell me. Answered. The people have fled from the battle. Saul and Jonathan are dead. Also, David said to him, they told the man, how lowest are this, that Saul and Jonathan his son be dead as it happened. And he explained, and he looked behind him, he said, saw me? And he called up to me, and he said, yeah, am I? So the man described it and when. Of course, let's skip all the other details.

In verse 17, David lamented with his lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan, his son. Then he said in verse 19, the beauty of Israel is slain upon the high places. How are the mighty falling? Tell it not in Gath. Publish it not in the streets of Askala. That is, do not announce the news. Okay, so it's not always a nice story. Okay. When you use the word bazaar to preach. But now the interpretation of Jesus's work, which is why the New Testament uses it and retains that rude right, because of what Christ did in the three days and three nights and in his resurrection. So Isaiah 52, or before we get there, look at Psalm 68, Verse 11. The Lord gave the word. Great was the company of those who published it.

When it's a company and they think it's like a printing company, publishing house. No king of armies. Look at the context. In fact, verse one says, arise, O God, and let your enemies be scattered. Let them that hate him flee before him. So verse 12, King of armies did flee apace, and she that tarried at home divided the spoil. So it's about war. The Lord gave the word and the company that talked about the news of the war. Okay, so Isaiah 52. And verse seven. How beautiful. That's the point. So this is where the concept of good news is from. News itself is war rhetoric, a military term. How beautiful. Upon the mountain are the feet of him. Now, when the Old Testament uses mountains, that is that seated on high. Is that on high? Is that supernatural?

The feet of him that brings good tidings, that publishes peace, and brings good tidings of good, that publishes salvation, said to Zion, thy God reigneth. Notice the Zion fact there publishes to Zion. Okay. Thy God reigneth in chapter 40. Look at this one, verse three. The voice of him that cries in the wilderness. Wilderness brings you to Exodus. Prepare you the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted. Every mountain. Now, valley and mountain are supernatural terms. Every mountain and hill shall be made Low crooked shall be made straight, and rough places plain. The glory of the Lord shall be revealed. All flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken it. Now look at verse nine. O Zion, which brings good tidings.

Get thee up in the high mountain, O Jerusalem, that brings good tidings. Now, Jerusalem and Zion are cities that were conquered by David. So you can see that if I Look at the second Samuel 5. And verse seven can read from verse one. But verse seven, David took the stronghold of Zion. The same is the city of David. That means he got it by warfare. So Zion already presupposes that the language of publishing is a publishing of war. Isaiah 61:1. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to preach. Now look at that term, to preach. So he said, preach is announce victory at war, Right? Huh? Are you here? Okay. To announce victory at war to the meek and set me to bind up the brokenhearted.

Now, so that you know that this is about war, he says to proclaim liberty to the captives. Is that war? All right. Opening of the prison to them that are bound. These are warfare rhetoric. To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance of our God, to comfort all that mourn. Three to appoint to them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, oil of joy for mourning, garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness, and that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the Lord, that he might be glorified. They shall build up the whole waste. They shall raise up the former desolations, shall repair the waste cities, desolations of many generations. So you see that at the background of this is also war and claiming territories. So we have war territories.

So if we come, therefore to understand the preaching of the gospel. So the one you use gospel. Gospel has the Old Testament warfare rhetoric. Now, Isaiah interprets it in Isaiah 60:1, verse 1 to 3. And we saw Isaiah 52:7. It's in the high mountain, the high places. So by using high mountains, high places to explain good news, it therefore means that the preaching of the gospel a spiritual warfare or the news of a spiritual conquest. So the question now is the New Testament silent about it? No, because the moment we use preach gospel, we are using, we call, therefore, I mean, we've said before, that becomes a codified language, right? That needs to be opened up in the narratives. By the time we use the word gospel, then we come to who is the king? Where is the kingdom where Is the territory?

Who's the enemy? When was the battle fought? What's our job? So those are key elements. In fact, if you read that into the Greco Roman text where Paul talks about Jesus will appear then those who are in the air will meet up. That is the like that's the culmination of that warfare claiming territory celebrating it. So we therefore will not be able to say because the New Testament is silent. We're going to see something in the second session because I have two sessions this morning and you say how silent is it about it? Is it silent? Or there's an assumption that the author I mean by the authors that their audience because they didn't write to you. Because they write to you.

You cannot but emphasize where they make assumptions they didn't write to it's like if I write a letter to try to just things that you probably will say okay, let me say something. I was having a meeting yesterday evening and it's a committee that I chair. So we're talking about something that happened on that committee at my classmates in school. So boss. So they were making jokes before and said it's Achama's birthday we are going to order something. So I was joking with them. I said that various is unconstitutional. There's nothing the constitutional that says you celebrate birthday for you. So I say we'll celebrate it our way. Not the way we used to celebrate it. Now if you are not. If you are not part of us. You know what they mean by we celebrate it?

The celebration of birthday is that they will give you what they call maximum shishi. It's your birthday and they will now come together and flog you no, that's the beginning. So the b that when they are done with you now bring food to thank them for what they have done. So now said who betting that Holly culture is those boys in the Bing house. You know. And the thing is you doesn't matter who you are but there was one particular senior who was very very brutal. We waited for his birthday because and that the ending of but be smart make sure that when you are doing your own you can't see you directly. So let's say let's celebrate birthday you now go away and call. Well you don't understand what we are saying we that we are talking.

We have an assumption that we're not talking to you because you know celebration day we need to But. But PR it I never was there was not one single day I was there beaten. I had a way around it. The Last one that almost happened. My mom came early, so I think she brought the food the day before. So I had been resolving my issues. So by the time you are taking care of all the host of heaven, I took care of, you know, everybody ahead of time anyway. So, you know, so the. The New Testament author makes that assumption because it's key to know that just like the Old Testament writer wasn't writing to you, the New Testament writer also wasn't writing to you. So we must sit where they sat. And they sat reading books that had a supernatural worldview.

So the question is, did they retain the worldview? We said, how would know is the language right now if the language, which is by the time they are interpreting it now, they retained the language of war. Now we have a small problem. Was there war for them to announce? Isaiah 60:1 says there was. One to three says there was. Did the New Testament author use it by Jesus's term kingdom, which is the word vasir? Kingdom has a king. You can't be a king without war. You can't be a king without territory and military strength and power. So by using kingdom, Jesus's codified language gives us the background of the Old Testament books. Again, read it last week in Luke 22 and 53, where he says, it is your hour and the power of darkness. Power of darkness.

Power of darkness is another military warfare rhetoric. All authority is giving me in heaven and on Earth. Matthew 28:18, all those phrases have the Old Testament background of war. Go and preach the gospel. And in Mark 16, which we are going to examine in circumcision, look at the four sign. Now, by using sign semion S E M E I O N. We've done this study before, though, by using signs. Why you and I may not. Because we don't. When you say sign, you will say sign board, right? Sign or sign language. Okay? But when they say sign, the Old Testament writer, sorry, New Testament writer has that Old Testament in view. Where there were signs in the Exodus in Egypt, because what happened between Moses, Pharaoh and his magicians and eventually all the plagues was warfare. Exodus 15 says it was war.

It was called the man of war. So by retaining the word Simeon in Mark 16 and John 2, look at John, Mark 16, look at the first sign. Cast out devils. That's the first sign Mark retains. Or the editor or the author cast out demons. Why is casting out demons the first thing to see? Why? It shows you, therefore, that there was conflict and conquest. Casting out of demons. So as a New Testament writer retained that view, sure. The use of again, Gospel kingdom preacher, maybe a few other things. The actual description of what happened to Jesus by Peter in Acts 2 gives us the idea. And maybe we should also add this. The fact that in the death and sufferings of Jesus resurrection, the most prominent character that was quoted by anyone was David. And you know, we talk about David the shepherd.

Yeah, you're right, but there's David the king. So we said that there is the heaven side. Or can you remember of the natural events described in the Old Testament? So if David is that character that was most used for Jesus, in fact, I showed you that Matthew 11 says the same seed of David first the seed of Abraham. So therefore you cannot explain Jesus's throne without explaining it from David. In fact, every time you talk about he is seated, all right, which is what all the writer of Hebrews like seven times Peter does Paul many times John seated is a Davidic language, seated far above because it's 110, verse one. It's David's prophecy. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand till I make all your enemies your footstool. Sit at my right hand.

And in Matthew 22:42, Jesus describes this as both the humanity and deity of the son of David. So in Acts of the Apostles, chapter two. Listen, guys. The connection between the New Testament author and the Old Testament is not assumed. It's direct and it is, you know, the influence of the Old Testament or New Testament author is not, by the way, it's not secondary, it's a primary source. So if that retained worldview cannot be seen, set aside or used sparsely in Acts of the Apostles and chapter two, again, in describing what happened from the cross to the throne, David is used singularly by Peter. It begins, of course, from Joel, the outpouring of the spirit. The outpouring of the Spirit is also warfare because it comes after an event. What's going on? Israel is under captivity, or the world of captivity.

Then when there is redemption, people are set free. And afterwards I will pour out my spirit. So the event of the outpouring of the Spirit, it proceeds from release from captivity, proceeds from redemption, proceeds from a release hero from bondage and therefore warfare. So the output of the Spirit also has a background as well of the war. So now watch how Paul. I'm sorry, Peter, sorry. Describes the resurrection. He says in verse 34, David is not ascended to the heavens because that's a primary character. And notice that, guys, look at it. You know, the ascension of David as king came firstly there Was a background that he took lion and a bear. Then Samuel comes to his house, chooses the unexpected, anoints him with oil. First Samuel 16, 12, 13. Then he goes to confront Goliath. You can't miss that. He takes on Goliath.

Then from that point he begins to conquer territories till 2nd Samuel, where he now is crowned 2nd Samuel 5 and takes Zion. So if David is a central character and he ascends. And put all your enemies and we saw that in the trajectory of David, therefore means just like Psalm 68, verse 1, let God arise, resurrection and let all his enemies be scattered. The background is so clear that the New Testament writer assumes I am reading what he's reading. Maybe where the issue is who are the enemies. We've said that there's now in a typical way we say the Old Testament fought not human enemies. The New Testament focus on not exactly. There is a heaven and supernatural side of the Old Testament writings that shouldn't be ignored either.

So in Acts 2 he says David did not ascend into heavens, but he said to himself, the Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand until I make thy foes your footstool. Who are the foes? Paul retains this language in 1 Corinthians 15, where he says, the last enemy that shall be destroyed, verse 25, 26, he says there, the last enemy. So in the resurrection of Jesus, the preaching of the gospel which proceeds from it, why are we preaching? We're preaching. Jesus rose from the dead. Jesus rising from the dead is conquest. Jesus rising from the dead is an exploit, is warfare. We said the other day that in the resurrection he took all the cities in the world, all the territories.

All right, we'll see all that as we also proceed in Colossians chapter 2 and 15, where Paul says he spoiled principalities and power and made a show of them openly triumphing over them in it. Colossians 2:15 In Ephesians 1, verse 19 through to 22, he says it's far above all principles, power, might and dominion, and every name that is named. Not only in this world. Now, why would you have the world to come? Because in this world we have the good and bad guys. But in the world to come, when everything is set right, good guys, he says far above. So if the gospel is emanating from a spiritual conquest, the use of the Gospel therefore has a worldview of the supernatural world. It mustn't be ignored. So the New Testament author and the Old Testament author are writing around the same events.

So what are we preaching on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, on the streets of Lagos, the streets of Abuja, the streets of London, the streets of Argentina, the streets of Sudan. What are we saying? That Jesus Christ has won. He has won what? He has won a victory in the supernatural world. What are we saying? We're saying that Jesus Christ has defeated the host of darkness. What are we then saying? We're saying we have the signs. One, we are not under the power of darkness. Two, we can set men free from it. So the preaching of the Gospel is therefore a supernatural vocation. It's not a mere intellectual discourse or a conversation around events trying to argue, debate and win it. The preaching of the Gospel has a preaching and announcement of something supernatural.

So wherein lies Our conversation this morning, at least in the introduction, is to say that the New Testament writer does not change the supernatural worldview. He might change the cultural worldview. All right. The historical cultural worldview will definitely change because time has passed. But the supernatural worldview is not Is an historical fact. It's the real fact of this world that mustn't be sightset. In Hebrews chapter 11 and verse three, the writer of Hebrews arguably has the most consuming sermon where he takes the scriptures from the first event after Genesis 2, which is Abel and Cain, and goes to. In fact, in verse 32, he says, Hebrews 11, what shall I say more? For time will fail me to tell of Gideon. I thought he would say, space will fail me, but it says time.

So it's almost like an oral dictate of what you're writing. And it goes through the Scriptures. But in Hebrews 11:3 that mustn't be lost on us. Through the faithfulness of God, which is what? Faith and our faithfulness, which is the word faith. There is codified language. We understand that the worlds. Now, of course, we have different ways to look at the word worlds. Ainion, which is practically to set things in time. But we also have the word cosmos, which is the arrangement of things. It says we are filled by the word of God. Pay attention. And the things that are seen were not made of things which do appear. The writer of Hebrews gives us that there's a heavenly side of all the events that we read in the old Testament. Hebrews 1:1.

Now, faith is a substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Look at how the word not seen is repeated. Not seen in verse one. The then which are seen in verse three, which do appear, not made of things which do appear. So appearance and the natural vis a vis the supernatural are emphasized by the New Testament author now. So when we read the words of the Old Testament, we therefore must know there is a heaven sighting, a supernatural sighting. That doesn't make it a strict war. It's not the kind of wars we fight today. The wars we fight today based on someone just angry with another person, different conventions are made. But in that then, the supernatural war or warfare was the background of much of the wars that were fought. That's why the news of it is called evangelism.

The news of what happened is called evangelism. So the content or the context of Scripture retains the supernatural context in the New Testament. And one of the things we said in how to interpret text, one of the things we said was go back to the original text. What is theology? There is a theology in the New Testament, usually. And then we said, what's New Testament wall saying? Now if you don't get that and you try to interpret it directly in your world today, you are going to have an error. So we have said a few things here already that the New Testament author is speaking the same context that the Old Testament authority. It might not be historically or culturally so, or language at all, but it is the same theology, because theology is critical. How does God see the world today?

It's how he saw the world then. And that is how or how does the what's his plan for the world today? Is his plan for the world there and will remain his plan for the world tomorrow? The language changes. The people change. Those we are writing will change. Therefore, the language will change. The kind of models they use will change. But the message is the same. So whether we like it or not, we are just as supernatural in the world today. And the world is just as supernatural as it is today as it was some thousands of years ago, even before the world became flesh and dwelt amongst us. For example, let me just make a side comment here. The use of kings, you know, so now we are all kings and the king. Do you realize that? The kings.

Now if you say kings because we're in the kingdom Basilia, I will go to the Old Testament use of kingdom. And they will say, we're kings, we're kings. And they say we're kings. I think in people's minds, is that a king that has a throne? It has to be the Old Testament language of kings and the Old Testament language of kings. A king is usually seen as a kind of an elohim. All right? Is a shade of an elohim. And why were kings called gods? Right? Is because they represented gods. So that a king of a community. In the second session, we won't look at how supernatural natural authorities will see that the king of a community is meant to be. Because don't forget, we'll also view that next few minutes.

Don't forget that we've asserted that Zoe 32, 8, 9 situates the fact that God, at some point, Yahweh. Now, because God is a general word, did give out the nations of the earth to supernatural beings, which is what Paul retains as first passes power, might and dominion. If he did that, and then we have earthly kings in those same places, then it presupposes that the earthly kings are representatives. Just like we said, the word king is also shepherd, king, shepherd, king, shepherd. Then we now have priests and prophet. Neither of the three are natural offices. They don't have anything to do with talents. They are representative capacities. So the writer of Genesis will call the three together image of God. Now, what is the image of God?

It's too general, because image, which is a lamb of gods, are the things you see in temples of worship. But this is the image of Yahweh God. So the image of Yahweh God will be a king, territorial commander, will be a priest, mediator, servant, and of course an intersection altogether. Then also a prophet, one who takes the message from the supernatural world and interprets it. That's what, when we split up the image of God, that's what we're going to find. So if that is so, it therefore means that if John says that we are kings and priests unto Our God, Revelation 5, 8, 9. And Peter says we are royal priesthood, the holy nation, a peculiar people. 1 Peter 2, 9. It means it retains that language.

Paul says we are in the kingdom, Colossians 1, 12, 13 also we are in the kingdom carries the idea that we are kings. Therefore means that the Old Testament and the New Testament have that connection not of audience, but of message theology. We therefore cannot look away from it. So let's look at a critical thing in Luke 4, because we have much, and I must mention this again, that in the same way the death of Jesus has been acted so well that we don't know what happened. I mean, you won't find in many theologies you won't find the difference between what they are preaching and the Jesus film. Jesus film just says that. I mean, some guys were just angry with him and took him on and that was all. And they put him what happened in three Days, everybody else goes numb.

So where did he go? Someone told me, I believe. I said, I know. I believe. Where did he go? He said, well, I think he was in the grave. Alive. He said, no, dead. So that means he was not in the grave. He was still there. He wasn't dead. Where did he go? His mumbling words. He doesn't want to say. He was spiritually dead. A phrase that the world of faith movement uses. And we have been attacked, and attacked we use. Just didn't die on that phrase and we'll still retain it. He says. He said, I believe. I said, did he go to God? Did he go to heaven using that phrase? He said, no. What did he go? Well, I believe there was a place. Which place? Who paid for the place? You know, because you have. You are down on something.

Because you are not up on something. You are down on it. So I said, where did he go to? No movie can ever act it. Where was he? What happened on the cross? I told the guy, I said, if you had opened your mind and read what happened from the cross of the throne of Father and his father E.W. Kenyon, this wouldn't have been so difficult for you. But your problem is that you have sold Lampoon Kenya, that his name has not ever has never been in the book of life. But you now need his own book of life to understand what happened. All right, you know, so here we are. What happened? What happened? Now, notice I showed you something that in the incarnation, nothing happened in the natural, nothing. A very major event was going on in the world.

When I say very major, the most major event, people were doing census. Be careful when we're having census in Nigeria so that you might not know what is going on. They are having census and, you know, doing all those kind of things. And God became a man. And God became a man. But you know something. Are you aware the host of heaven appeared, all right, two years after we saw concept of the Old Testament, the stars. If you thought that was one star that moved from Moshe will be down to Kejar. No. Are you listening? Nobody saw it. So it was supernaturally visible. So those were supernatural indicators. You cannot therefore say the New Testament is silent on the supernatural world. How? When you saw in Luke 2 that the host of heaven were jumping up and rejoicing and all that.

And they were appearing. There was a star constellations that was going on. Supernatural beings appeared to Joseph, you know, to. Before he started tweeting. And it appeared to Mary. You know, that's too supernatural to ignore, too Much the New Testament writer is not silent. You notice that there was as much interactions God had with Joseph and Mary, like Abraham in the Incarnation, even to the wise men from the East. So let's keep all that quickly and go to Luke 4 and see that at the temptation of Jesus the Now I have an interpretation to this that I gradually give out. It's in our book, this Gospel, I think another material. And that's the fact that what is going on here in Luke and Matthew, both of them recorded, is twofold. It summarizes the supernatural world and its conflict with Jesus ministry.

But secondly, the manifestation of this temptation of Jesus is in the authorities, the Pharisees, the Sadducees and the rulers and elders. And in Matthew's dig, he's able to explain it that Jesus being tempted. Now he puts it together as three things in Luke, I mean Matthew 4. But then he goes into breaking down and says, and there was a Pharisee and he came to tempt Jesus. And he came to tempt Jesus. And he came to tempt Jesus. And in all the instances you are able to pick all the said to Jesus under the three concepts of temptation. So in Luke 4 when he says, is Matthew talking literally was led of the Spirit into the wilderness? Or is he bringing us to the Exodus story because he has shown us Jesus, the Son of God, Exodus, Baptism at the Jordan Exodus, Right.

The words of John the Baptist, Isaiah 43, 9, Exodus. So this must be another Exodus narrative. John 1:14 says, the word became flesh and dwelt amongst us pure Exodus. So Matthew chapter four. Well, I'm in Luke four actually. And it says for 40 days Exodus tempted of the devil in those who didn't need nothing. And they were ended. The afterwards was hungry and the devil said to him, if you be the Son of God, Exodus, command this stone to be made to bread. All that Jesus said were in Deuteronomy, the second Law or the New Covenant of the Old Testament, where the background was the Exodus. So Jesus is the king of the new Exodus. He's the Joshua of the new Exodus.

He's the Moses, the new Exodus, as we said, in the name of Jesus, he acquires the personalities of all the Messiahs Christ of the Old Testament. So he says here the devil said to him, if you be the Son of God, it's like saying, if you are Israel. Is that clear? If you are that Israel, command the stone that they may bread. He uses the same Hebrew scriptures. It's written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word. Of God to Romans, chapter 8. 8, Verse 3. They were taking him onto a high mountain. You know, High mountain. High mountain. Showed him all the kingdoms. Now, when we say high mountain, do you assume that Matthew is saying that, you know, he just took him to where? Mount Everest. Can you see the kingdoms of this world on Mount Everest?

No, you can't. There's no plane you can get into in this world that can see the whole world at once. So High mountain here. Old Testament language, supernatural world. Very well. High mountain. And showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. This is Revelation, right? Good. And he said, all this power will I give you, and the glory of them, for that is delivered unto me. And to whomever I will, I give it. If therefore thou will worship me, all shall be yours. High mountain. In verse nine. This is a quick one. He brought him to Jerusalem. So you notice that this temptation was in different places. He wasn't like, all right, we have passed this one. Okay, one over three. Let's go, let's go. Follow me. Let's go. All right. Jesus come. Is high mountain. We're going.

No, please, you can't be tired. This has to be a summary of his temptations. So he goes and he says, my emphasis in verse eight. All the kingdoms. Sorry, verse six, I'll give it to you. Has been given to me. Where? Who? All the kingdoms have been given to me. Now pause a bit. We have said that, this being New Testament authors, that's why I said, in this series, you must pay very good attention because I'm very deliberate on the terms I'm using and the way I'm explaining it. Now, notice that we said Satan from the Old Testament is not any particular person. Remember, I will say that there was more than one supernatural being involved in prosecuting, attacking, you know, persecuted, more than one.

But over time, one particular part of the host of heaven acquired the title of the devil and the Satan. You might not find this explanation in the Old Testament because there's not just one. All right, so here. Has been given to me. Will be one person speaking for others. Has been given to me. Do not forget again, we said that host requires structural authority, some level of orderliness. Ephesians 6:12 also talks about preservative power, might dominion, power, spiritual wickedness in the high. So that shows you there's a structure. So let's assume this is the head of the structure. Let's assume that this is the commander in chief, as it were. Okay, now, he says, has been given to me. Whoever I will, I give it to you. Now, if this was a lie, it wasn't a temptation. It wasn't a lie. So by whom?

Now look at John. John 18:11. Thou could have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above. It's talking to Pilate. Therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin. So he says, you cannot have this power, except it was given to you from above. Now Jesus is talking to an earthly ruler. We are quick a bit here, but we have said that. Is there a connection between ethnic kings and the supernatural world? There is. Remember in Acts 4 I showed you the other day that when the elders persecuted them, they went to Psalm 2. Why do the eating rage and the people imagine a vain thing? He says, the kings of the earth and the rulers, all right, Moved against the Lord and against his anointed. Excuse me, how supernatural world.

Yet through earthly kings, the connection must not be lost. That is why there's a debate on First Corinthians 2:8. Had the princes of this world known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Who are his people? Is it Pilate? No, that's a supernatural world. But their manifestation is through earthly authority. Remember we said. We're probably going to go back to that in the second. Let me see my. Yeah, in the second session. That. Where we have. Pay attention. Semblance of structure, unity. We said there's what? A supernatural context. Can you remember that? Genesis 11. A supernatural context to it. People are just bound by culture. They're bound by thinking, they're bound by habits. They're bound by, you know, pursuit, purpose and theology, as it were. It's a supernatural world context to it. So given to me where.

Now we're in a little bit of trouble here. Jesus is saying Pilate's authority came from above. Jesus asked, does Jesus use above for the power of darkness? Let's make an assumption that he's referring to supernatural powers. Okay, supernatural powers, above. What about Luke 4? Satan is saying, it's given to me. Given to me by who? Now some theology says is referring to Genesis 3. Given to him by. By Adam. Now that's a little bit interesting. Adam didn't have that to give. Adam couldn't have given a Satan the kingdoms of the world. It looks too simplistic to accept that. So we must go back to the Old Testament again. But one thing I give to that fact is that at least those who support that know that it's the Old Testament that can explain it.

There's nothing that suggests that what happened in Genesis 3 is Adam giving authority to the devil. What we saw was the three parties or two were chunked out together. So if what we read, verses 3:16 was I put enmity between your seed and a seed to booze ahead. Who's your seed? That's not anyone being given authority. We don't find any background to that authority. And don't forget kingdoms have to do with territories. There's nothing like that in Genesis 3. But like I usually like to do, sometimes one error here and there not oh, let's think about it. Sometimes those things lead you to think better. So that means we agree it was given. And I think the challenge with those who have that supposition is that they just don't want to imagine it was God who gave it. That will put us in trouble.

But the plain truth is, and this is why they should go first, if Yahweh gave man authority and that man disobeyed, then it's not out of place for Yahweh to give supernatural officials authority. Disobeyed doing it. That shouldn't be a problem. Okay. It doesn't mean we're in a mess. No, we're not. It just simply means that Yahweh makes or made Yahweh. God made free will beings. That's what it is. So where therefore can we the look at this conversation has been given to me. And Jesus told Pilate, you can't have this except it's given to you from above. Maybe I should mention one more. Romans 13 Are you in church? What I intend to do for next week we're going to look at the four Gospels and we're going to uncover the supernatural context of the four Gospels. Very interesting way.

Romans 13:1 Let every soul be subject to the higher powers. Now, if there's any place that people have problems with Paul, particularly modern thinkers when it comes to theology is this. It says there is no power but of God. Now the higher powers is local government chairman. Hello. Then it says the powers that be are ordained of God. Whoever. Therefore resist last month. How about that for interpretation? Resist the word of God. That's very compliment. You can't argue with last man last month is those who regulate traffic in Lagos. No way. In Jesus name. I said Paul says they that receive shall receive the same damnation. Get that now. All right. That includes. What's the guy? Vio. Right. For rulers are not entitled to good works, but to evil. We therefore not be afraid of the power.

Actually we had this in one of our books. I think it's God's word in the pandemic. I think we did explain this and the Christian it and politics. I, I think we should write another book on politics and the church. I'm going to have that this year. Do that which is good and that's. Now look at this, look at what it says. Look at. Let's take four together so that, you know, don't look like you didn't see it for it is the. Don't go and don't bother taking the Greek word. It's the same thing. You know, you'll be lost on this if you don't get the Old Testament interpretation of it. So Paul has just said to us that ethnic rulers, you know, Jesus said that to Pilate, right? It's given to you from above. Paul just said the same thing.

So it shows you there is a heaven manifestation of the things on earth. There's a supernatural manifestation. So the concept of this teaching which is seated on high truth of the Ephesians letter on of course the New Testament writers is something that has to be studied in all human sphere and endeavor. Here we have seen that earthly authorities. Now Paul makes an assumption which is rooted. He says that look, they are not a terror for good works. Paul, come around. Will you not be afraid? Will you dare not be afraid of the power? Do that which is good and you have praise of men. Now this assumes the society, but I think that is beyond that.

I think in the mind of Paul, he's writing to the Christians in Rome who are under a tyrant and he said, look, this is to regulate us, etc. Etc. And all that. It comes with a lot of interpretation with it. But the truth is where we should go here is the fact that Paul, just like Jesus said, this power is from above. Paul, right. So where can we explain this? And Deuteronomy, chapter 32. Like I said, I'm going to give you a counter narrative to this. Maybe not this month, maybe sometime in the year. There's a counter narrative to it. It's an argument that doesn't change it, at least not yet. And I doubt it will. But it gives you a broader way to think. Now, verse eight and that I can't tell you. Is there any book?

It's just a professor and I, we had a conversation on it for a while last year. So he sent me, I sent him my own thesis on this and he sent me quite, quite some material I had to read over the months. I just Finished. I think it was December or so. Look at seven. Remember the days of old. Consider the years of many generations. Ask thy father, and he will show you the elders and the authorities. So this is something that happened before, right? Then it says, when the Most High. Look at that word, most High. Please just circle most high. Most high is host of Heaven language. Because, you know, remember we saw it in Psalm 89, where he says he's above the heavens, right? The who? The heavens can be compared to you. That's the Most High language.

So if I say most high. 1 Most high deals with supernatural beings. And Most High are also going to see deals with territories. When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. This is where the contention is, just like Genesis 6. 4. Now, I'm going to read this from the Septuagint. I know in this series we have gone through this again and again. Why it cannot be children of Israel? Because when this happened, Israel wasn't birthed. That's Genesis 11. I'll read the Septuagint for you. Remember days of old. Consider years of generations. Ask your father. He'll say to your elders.

And they'll tell you, when the mountain most High distributed nations, as he scattered the sons of Adam, he set up boundaries for the nations. Is that territories? Huh? According to the number of the angels of God. Septuagints. And the angels of God in Septuagint language were sons of God. Genesis 6, 4. And his people, Jacob, became the portion of the law. Israel, an allotment of his inheritance. So he's saying to us here that the nations were given over to the host of heaven. That's angels of God. Sons of God. The nations were given over to the host of heaven. Look at another thing in Jesus, chapter four. Take it therefore. Good Heed unto yourselves. For you saw no manner of similitude on the day that the Lord spake unto you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire. That's Exodus 19.

Lest you corrupt yourselves and make you a graven image. The solicitude of any figure, likeness of male or female, likeness of any beast that is on the earth. Earth, likeness of any winged fowl that flies in the air. Now look at the word likeness, which means we're looking at the word. That's the word. Selem. This is actually not selem. This is demuth, which is to show a picture to Draw out an image, then say, the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground. Likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth. Now pause. Is this Genesis? Very well. So in Genesis, in the supernatural world context, this is the same thing. Look at 19. Unless thou lift up your eyes to heaven. Very clear, right? Okay. And when you see the sun, the moon, this is Genesis, right?

And the stars and all the host of heaven should be driven to worship them. Why is he warning them about worshiping them? Why, something must have happened. And serve them. Now pay attention. Remember, we read in 32 now that the most High divided the nations to the sons of God, right? Now look at this one. It says, which the Lord thy God are divided unto all nations under the whole level. Which means that he had given all the nations over to these beings, but not you, okay? But the Lord had taken you and brought you out. That means he brought you out of that, even out of Egypt, to be unto him a people of inheritance to this day. So he's saying to you clearly that, look, you are a chosen generation. You are a holy nation to the other nations.

The Lord divided them to the sons of God. Now notice that Israel came out of Adam being called from the nation of Genesis 12. But something happened in Genesis 11, which is what we're going to look at very quickly again. Learning something. Are you learning something, guys? Now watch this. Look at verse 16. They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods, with abominations provoking him to anger. They sacrificed the devils not to burden to God whom they knew not. New gods that came up newly, whom your fathers feared not. So I read it to you from the subject, the sacrifice to demons and not to God. So pause on that word, demons, because it's our next lane of study, all right? And to those whom they had not known, new recent ones have come whom their fathers had not known.

So we are having a clear suggestion here in Deuteronomy that God gave the nations over to the sons of God. Now, the angels of God, the hosts of heaven, the fellow who spoke to Jesus in Matthew's language and Luke's language, was he a member of the host of heaven? Huh? Was. So this is a clear description of where the power is from Genesis 11. And the whole earth was of one language and of one speech. Verse one. It came to pass as they journeyed from the east, and they found a plain in the land of Shina, and they dwelt there. They said to one another, go to, let us make brick and burn them down thoroughly. And they are big for stone, and slime hardly for mortar.

And they said, go to, let us build us a city and a tower, which top may reach unto heaven. Let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the earth. Earth. So and the Lord came down to see the city and the tower with the children of men building. And the Lord said, behold, the people is one, and they have one language. And this they begin to do. And now nothing will change from them which they have imagined to do. Go to verse seven. Let us go down. And they are confounding language, that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord scattered them abroad from ends upon the face of all the earth, and they left off to build the city. Now watch. This therefore is the name of it called Babel.

This is where we have the word Babylon. It just means things are scattered because the Lord did there confounded language of all the earth, and from hence did the Lord scattered them abroad upon all the face of the earth. This is the this is the language of Israel. 32 And in Romans, chapter 1, Paul, just before we got that, Romans 13. Says in verse 18 for the wrath of God. That's how it starts. The wrath of God is revealed for heaven against all ungodliness, unrighteousness of men who hold the truth of unrighteousness, of the truth and unrighteousness. Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it unto them. For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen.

Look at the word invisible things being understood by the things that are made. Which means we have a heaven side. Remember that it says even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. Are we back? Genesis 11. Huh? Good.

And their foolish heart was darkened, professed themselves to be wise to make him fool, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, to birds, to four footed beasts, and creeping things, wherefore God also watches, gave them up to uncleanness, to the loss of their own heart, to be some of their own bodies between themselves, which in the truth of God him to a lie and worship and serve the Creator more than the Creator, which is blessed forever. Amen. So God gave them up. And that's the same word we saw in Luke 4 has been given to me. Okay. He gave them up. And 26. For this cause God gave them up to vile affections. For even their women did change their natural use into that which is against nature.

And likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman born in their lust, one towards another. Men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves the commence of the error which was made and even did not to retain God in their knowledge. God gave them over. It's so consistent. He gave them over to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. So we have where God we said that in fully your destiny, God where God gave them over to what they wanted. So in Genesis 11, that Babylon is what man wanted and God gave him. Chapter 32 where it says he gave to the angels of God, the sons of God, the nations of the earth. That gives us the background of what Satan said through Jesus. And this is from where?

Let me look at Genesis 10. Something is in there. Skipped the origin of kingdoms. Or let's track accurate Genesis 4. Cain, verse 16. Cain went out from the Lord and dwelt in the land of naught on the east of Eden, and came with his wife. And she conceived and bore Enoch. And he built a city builder the city of the city as a name of his son Enoch, he built a city. Then we can go on and on and maybe a few things. Lamech, verse 19 took two wives. Name of one was Ada or other was Zila. And Ada, sorry, Ada Boh, who was the father of such as dwell in tents and have cattle. His brother's name was Juba, who was the father of them that handled the harp and the organ. You guys have seen should watch this.

So you see where music came from. And Zillariz also brought tubercain, an instructor of every artificial brass and iron. This is weapons of war. And sister of Tobacain was. Now why are they doing this detail for you? And Lamech said to his wife, so you can see really you find where weapons of warfare came from that Cain generation. Okay, so Genesis and chapter 10. 10. So this is the first man who built a city. Genesis chapter 10. And verse 8. And cush be that Nimrod, he began to be mighty one in the earth. And we sort out the Gibboriims and the Anakims, that narrative they have nine humans was a mighty altar before the Lord. Wherefore it said, even as Nero the mighty hunter before the Lord. And this is a supernatural being again. And the beginning of this kingdom Was Babel. What?

So we find Kingdom Babel here. That's where kings and kingdoms, when I explain kings, kingdom, city, man made things. So the fact that it's in God's word doesn't mean it's God's will. He gave them over to it. So if you now see, Satan said to Jesus, all the kingdoms were given to me. Now, was it given by man? No. All right, it's given in man's disobedience. That's a better way to look, put in man's disobedience. So Israel was called out, let's say, in Abraham, and you shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, welcomed in, accepted, you know, and all of that in Genesis 12, verse 3, 3 and 4. Psalm82. Quick one. We were there before. Psalm82. God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods.

Again, the argument to suffice is we're talking about earthly rulers or supernatural beings. I'll read this to you from the Septuagint, which is Psalm 81. God stood in the assembly of the gods. In the middle, he judges the gods. Now, maybe I should say this at this point, the Septuagint is an interpretation. It's equally a translation, okay? As much as it has a lot of authority, it is not all authority. Now, where it becomes very useful is because in the time of Jesus was used, because that was basically the language that they spoke. But then we must be careful not to quickly foist on it, as it were. The authority doesn't have. So here God stood in the assembly of the gods. In the middle, he judges the gods. How long will you judge unjustly and take the faces of sinners?

Oh, so we have two schools of thought. These are human judges or human gospel. We have reason to say that because there are times like that human judges were called Elohim. But this doesn't suffice because by saying he stands in the congregation, right, it presupposes a supernatural assembly. Then he says, and of course, it brings in the host of heaven. Language, the most high language. Then he says, here, consider the offer, and the needy vindicate the law low, and the poor deliver the poor, and the needy rescue them from the hand of the sinner. Now, my approach to this is to read it in a more wholesale fashion. That is, earthly rulers are manifestations of supernatural principalities.

So this goes together where God is judging a supernatural being, therefore is passing the judgment because of the manifestation of the things that were done by the earthly rulers. Consider the Orphan and needy vindicated the low and the poor. Deliver the poor and the needy. Rescue them from the hand of sinners. They did not know, nor did they understand. In darkness they passed through all the foundation of the earth were shaken, will be shaken. I have said you are gods. All of you are children of the Most High. The only people called children of the Most High, apart from the angels, of course. Host of heaven will be Israel. And this is not to Israel. And now you die as humans. This is what is the game changer. There as one of the rulers you fall.

Stand up, O God, judge the earth, because you will inherit amongst all the nations. This takes us back to Jeremiah 32 again, verse 7, 8 and 9, and Genesis chapter 11, which means there are beings that God gave in his permission. The nations of the earth too, that did not carry it out well, but why? Same thing as man. Because this shows how God's creatures have a free will. So where did the authority come from? It came from disobedience or came in disobedience. And we said in the other series that there's always second best, right? God has second best. The Old Covenant, where he had to use cultures or religion is the second best. That's not the ultimate destination. Where he gave in, where he told Israel.

We saw that when he left Israel and when they went to worship other gods in Deuteronomy 32, 33 said, I'll give you another angel. And Moses said, no, no. You are the one. You are the one that we want. Which means he gave them a second best second option. When he called all Israel to be priests and he said no, then he called Levi. It's always that narrative in the Old Testament where there's the second best. It's not his ultimate will, but he permits it. And this can therefore safely explain why Satan said, it has been given to me. And so God restores all things to its normalcy in the resurrection of Jesus, where it says, all authority in heaven and earth, he's giving me. And how did that happen? He stripped his parties, power, might and dominion. Colossians 2:15. Are you here?

And so that happened in the territories of the world at once. So therefore there's a New Testament offer. This is where we started this. We're going to be on this for a while. Does he retain the Old Testament content? He does. Why would Paul call Satan the God of this world? 2 Corinthians 4, 3, 4. As blind the minds of them that believe not that retains the Old Testament narrative of the hosts. Of heaven and the gods of the nations. Why would he say that fought with the beast at Ephesus? Because it retains that narrative. Weapons of our warfare are not canal, but mighty through God to the pulling down strongholds. Second Corinthians, chapter 10, verse 3 and 4. Why would he talk about wrestling against principal against flesh and blood? Because you think that the problem you have is natural rulers.

Paul says no is against spiritual wickedness in the high places. The apostles, when they were persecuted by the elders of Israel, said, this is the rulers of the earth. Psalm 2 Supernatural beings are involved here and that must be our approach. Where did they get the authority from? Jesus said, from above. John 18:11, Luke 4, 6. In the temptation of Jesus, Satan said, it's been given to me. So where did it happen? It can't be Genesis chapter three, because it doesn't speak about kingdoms at all. Genesis chapter three. It's therefore traced to. Like I said, the Reformation made us really fixate on Genesis 3 as just the only disobedience. But Genesis is the foundation of the world. And we have Genesis 6, Genesis 11, Genesis 3, Genesis 4.

All of them have a role to play in the conquest of sin in the world and what Jesus did to them. All of them are taken care of in the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus. Are you in church? Okay, so to understand why Paul says raised us far above all principalities, power and might, Paul takes wherever you live in mind, wherever you stay, or wherever you are called to preach or you are called to minister. Maybe we should look at 1st Corinthians 15 again, 1st Corinthians 15 and verse 32. If after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, he says, beasts at Ephesus after the manner of men. Now in 2nd Corinthians and chapter 1 and verse 8, 1st Corinthians 16, 1st Ephesus, verse 8. But I tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.

For a great door, an effectual door, is opened unto me. There are many adversaries, many, many adversaries. And he calls them beasts in Second Corinthians 1, verse 8. For we would not, brethren, have ignorance of Act 7, which came to us in Asia. We are pressed out of measure above strength, insomuch that we despise evil of life. 2 Corinthians 12. One. It is not expedient for me, doubtless to glory I will come to visions and revelations of the Lord. I knew a man in Christ above 14 years ago. Whether in the body I cannot tell whether out of the body I cannot tell. God knows, for such one caught up to the third heaven. Now he goes on, then talks about his revelation, caught up in paradise.

Then he says in verse seven, unless I should be exalted above measure through the abundance of the revelations there was given to me a thorn in the flesh. Old Testament language is warfare the messenger of Satan to buffet me, lest I should be exalted above measure. Yet he says, for this thing I besought the Lord thrice, and I might depart from me. He said to me, my grace sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly, therefore I will glory in my infirmity, the power Christ rest upon me, wherefore I take pleasure in the pharmacist reproaches, necessity, persecutions, Christ's sake. For when I'm weak, then I am strong. Okay, so you see that Paul identifies the challenges to supernatural things. So New Testament author retains perfectly the Old Testament context of the supernatural world.

And our work is to say is that the. The context of the world? Oh yes. Then we must, at a point in this series which is trusting God will get to that, use the identification unifiers. How? And the only way we can do that safely is to find out how the New Testament writer dealing with the Old Testament. How do we identify supernatural origins in our world today? It's a bit difficult because we are in a very modern world. Everything seems to be explained logically. But that is ridiculous if you think that way. The moment we do that, then the believer's authority becomes totally obliterated in our thinking. We will know what it is. Because the moment the supernatural world is not explained, the believer's authority can never be understood because it can only be related in that order.

I'll see you in 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/