Wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Verse 8. Which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. So in the crucifixion of Jesus, there's an earth side and there's a what? A heavenly side. And they were working together. So when Jesus was talking to Cephas, he said, you see the son of man coming in the clouds? That's heaven. Said, this is the power of darkness. In John 12. John12, Verse 31. Now is the judgment of this world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. The prince of this world be cast out. And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me. The prince of this world. John 12:31 Be cast out. Matthew 12:29.

How can anyone enter into a strong man's house and spoil his good? Except he first bind the strong man, then he will spoil his house. Then he will spoil his house. Jesus is talking about his death here. Then he will spoil his house. Look at Luke 10:18. Luke 10:18 when those guys went out to preach, God said, we're astonished that the demons are subject to us to your name. Luke 10:18 he said, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Luke 10:18 I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. So the sun, moon and stars again depicted there. So when they say the stars were falling, that is supernatural. I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. John 12, John 14. Sorry, and verse 30. For I will not talk much with you.

For the prince of this world comes and found and finds nothing in me. John 16:11 of judgment because the Prince of this world is judged. John 16:11 the prince of this world is judged. The prince of this world is judged. Acts 26:18 Paul to turn their eyes. This is the preaching of the Gospel. And to turn them from darkness to light. Now when we use darkness, where did we first read darkness in scripture? Genesis 1:2. And it's not atmospheric darkness, okay? That's why Isaiah 60 says darkness covers the earth, gross darkness, its people. Darkness was over the face of the deep. And God said, let there be light. So the use of darkness shows us, right, that the world has a supernatural context. Now this is where the challenge is.

When people get to the fringes of this and they leave it out the world. But the truth is that the core issue is that man, right, is an evolved reality. Man is not of a lesser component or disposition. So that's why to teach our identification and who we are in Christ Jesus, in God's word, is very core to understanding the identity of the earth as well. So here we have to turn them from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, inheritance among them, which are sanctified by faith, which is in me. 2Nd Corinthians 4:4.

If our gospel be hid, he says, is heed to them who are lost in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is image of God, should shine on them. So our idea of darkness and light stems from the elements of this world. So this world is founded around heavenly realities. And that's why Paul will say, I, therefore I cannot my speech and my preacher preaching cannot be with the enticing words of man's wisdom, but the demonstration of the spirit and of power that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God. That's why I say the weapons of our warfare, 2 Corinthians 10:3, 4, are not canal but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds.

I told you before, many of the wars that Israel fought, and they say all were wars, there were spiritual warfare in context. So there is the human side and there's the heaven side, or there's the earth side and there's the heaven side to what was done. So the elements of this world. So a believer has to be heavily minded. When we say heavenly minded, it's not where you go to where you die heavenly minded. There's a heaven side to earthly things in the world. There's a heaven side to the earth. There's a supernatural world context to the earth itself. And that should inform how we think. We take it all in details. Like we mentioned that it's very easy to think that when we talk about idols, we're talking about something ancient. But look at 1 Corinthians 8.

Four, as concerning therefore, the eating of those things which are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world. Now, nothing doesn't mean it doesn't exist. Is that clear? And there is none other God but one. For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven on earth, God many, and Lords many, but to us there is but one God, the Father of whom are all things, and him and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things and we by him. So it says, heaven and earth has lords and gods. The New Testament writer retains it. So today we have to. This is not the midstream tonight. I mean today, this time. But let's look at the unifiers what unifies this world. In Corinth, we have seen that the Corinthian worldview, the Exodus worldview, are alike.

So is 2023 like Paul's Day? Yes, it is. And same way that there was no Corinth in the Old Testament, but there was current in the New Testament, an evolved city, a place. The moment we said people were. Look at Paul when He said in First Corinthians 12, he said, you know, verse two, that you were Gentiles. He used a common word, carried away or carried away unto these dumb idols even as you were led. So something bound them, their worship, their thinking pattern, their philosophies. So nations are not just geographical anymore, alone. Sorry. There are also things bound by philosophy, bound by thinking patterns will detect the moment we see something uniting people. Right. We are detecting a supernatural world view. And it's not by telling them you guys are. No, no, no.

It's an approach that we take, you know, in the spirit and approach that meeting. Somebody was saying this, that was two days ago, was talking about the laws of the land. So he said that if you disobey the laws of the land. He was, when he said it. So he now, someone now asked him a question. He was saying or something about, you know, the way we twist the Scriptures. When he was working, I think he was talking about protest or something. So he was not saying, if you speak Lord of the land, something about revelation, something about God and all that. So but I was not particular until now said Daniel that. So someone else said, but Daniel, you know, did not obey the law of the land. And he said, well, the answer he gave was very funny.

He said, well, that was Bible days that these are different. So I now said to Him I said, the issue about it laws of the land in Daniel was worship. The moment he talks about my worship, it is no longer because Romans 13 when Paul talked about the laws, he said they are meant to be terror to injustice and unrighteousness and evil. But if it comes to my worship. So when someone told me and we're talking about the COVID lockdown and he said to me said, well, at some point then I saw his phone. He said, look, if this begins to impugn on our worship of God and we can't gather another. I said, well, at this point, this is to preserve lives. That when it comes to preserving lives, that there is no way around it.

Even in Exodus world to preserve a life, the midwives, right, said that the children of the Hebrews were just coming out of no labor. Now you call it a lie, right? That's what you say Scope, but it's not so. It preserves a life. And preserving that life is of a high biblical principle. Preserve the life. I said the same thing that Samuel say, you're going to worship. That's not all he was going to do. You know, he concealed it. I said, so therefore, if the government is telling us to do this, to reserve this is fine. But if we now see that hey, the disease has waned, they now say that is no longer. That's now. Are you getting my point? That's now worship.

So until that happens, I said, I have no fears say because myself if we gather today, I asked you to wear their mask and we're going to do that. I'm going to do prison. Said, I know you know all these things. I said. I said, some of the people you are accusing are born again people. Many of the people were held of their born. Some of them are even members of your church. Are they also working for the Antichrist? Calm down. But the moment they say write no more Bible teaching. If they say, okay, preach for 30 minutes so that we gather for long. So I can. In fact, some nations are oh, were blessed. Some nations. In Africa they shut down churches for five months. There was no just be worshipping God. You are the temple of God on your own.

So don't say that. But the government said no, we cannot gather that. Nathaniel's case was about worship. They made a statue. Say be biased. He won't do it. They should not pray to his God. Pray to the three Hebrew children. They said they made a statue. They were not careful to answer you. It's not. We're not saying. But why now not careful. So Those are different things. So they tell you to. They post traffic light. You say, you are going for evangelism. You cannot wait. Or they say that okay, do not. Did they say you should not sing? Then I said, don't put your speaker. I don't know that you'll take your speaker point to the road. What kind of. I told somebody. I said, even me. The guy was really annoyed. I said, how can you put your chair? You know?

I said, I said, even me. The temple of God. You are disturbing the temple of God here. The guy was upset. I said, you are disturbing. You are using temple to disturb temple. One temple has to keep quiet. When he now removed the speakers and close the church said, the church is being fought against. I said, let me tell you something. If I were the government official, I would shut that church. I said, yes. That's how I told the person, you went to school, you are not doing well, you are filling your school books. He has said, you are called to the ministry. I said, come here. I said, me, I was your parents. I will stop you from going to that church. Pastor. I said, yes, face your hooks. Is that fair? The law of the land. Law of the land.

This law is. The law. Pay your taxes. He said, no, it's antichrist thing. Wait, is it Christ that is supplying you power? Supplying the amenities? Say no, the earth is the Lord. Okay, no problem. So the moment the thing is possible pointing to worship. And you must be discerning. You detect something. Are you here? This is. This is not about. Not that everything you sit down. So they said, do your nin. Is it Wash? Wash. Don't become crazy. Okay. You see Wash Ni. This one that I giving all of us number. I am thinking I want to be in the number. Is it number? Is it a number? It's a supernatural world context. Things bind people and takes worship. And worship doesn't mean have to be something you are saying you know about. No. For example, you can be. You can worship entertainment.

I think we're at that point where people don't think church is exciting until they are entertained. So they had to spice up the service. When Charles portrayal said years back that the time will come that there will be clowns in the churches, they thought it was a joke. There are clowns now in the services. They don't recall everything. Now, today it's easier to have comedians mimic churches. And this is a permission given to them by church. When you bring them to the pulpit to begin to, you know, make people laugh. Now I'm Definitely not against.

If you have a birthday, you can have people, you know, in fact, if you have an MC that just talking straight and it says, this is the bad day of our brother and sister, You know, I mean, you have people who can sing, you know, and they can. Sometimes when we have all these things and we have instrumentalists to go beyond board, you know, things holding them back, they, they know, it's just restriction. They looking at the people. Let's identify this thing, you know, but the point you have those things and where there's no restraint, the person can come up and, you know, make people laugh and stuff like that in a. Maybe a birthday of believers, you know, and all of that. But we have to know we can't be worshiping entertainment such that it has to be part of our worship.

I is not part of. How can church just be. So can you just be teaching like that and teaching and prayer. That's all, that's all. No, Christianity is exciting, See, it's exciting. And people are growing thinking that way. It's exciting, it's exciting. And when he says exciting, it's not talking about winning souls, casting out demons, healing the sick, revelations of God. No, it's exciting. In the Old Testament, what was the sign and wonder was a supernatural world. Now the sign and wonder is see, we're now in the service. Do not crave more worship. I saw what. So the choir now came from the ground. I said, this is my production. You don't know what I'm talking about. He didn't touch. So you now see that they got him from the world. So one day I was wondering why this church was doing this.

So I just saw one click by. Is it that we know now? Was it an OTO arena? The way he came in? And I said, no, is this guy bona boy? The way he came in, I said, this is. This cannot, this can't happen in the church act. You are now excited. Wow. Did not get their phone. Whereas in Exodus they went to the mount and they saw the God of Israel. Do you get it? And the glory of God filled the place. That's, you know, that is where our attention should be on. So we have to be very wary of philosophies that push us away from the worship of God. The genuine, sincere worship of God. So the earth is founded on the supernatural world. We can look at Matthew 5 here, learning something.

Look at how Jesus connects heaven and earth in verse 33 again, you have heard. It has been said by them of old time, thou shalt not forswear thyself, for thou shalt perform unto the Lord thine hosts. But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither by heaven, for it's God's throne. Now, when you say heaven, that's heavenlies, right? It will be the host of heaven. It's God's throne. Or by the earth, it is footstool. Now, when I say by footsteps. Full stool is not the seat of the. I mean the bottom of the chair. No, footstool is where you exercise that authority. So if the earth and the heavens are described as footstool and throne, that means they intersect. So our thinking of the earth has to change our thinking of the earth.

And I'm saying this as I start to close that if we understand this right, and I trust God, that when we get to a point in this series, because this series is taking the dimension of salvation. I think so. You think so too. It will get to some points here. Why you pray will be clear to you while you pray. While now be clear to you, it will. It's meant to deepen your prayer life. Why you pray? Because like I said yesterday and also on Wednesday, there is no greater exercise of the believer's authority like prayer. You now know why you must take words more seriously than you do. All right, let's stop today with the like I said.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/