55 Says he cast out the eaten before them and divided them inheritance by line and made travelers to dwell in their tents. Look at 57. And they turned back and dealt faithful like their fathers. They turned aside like in the Snowball. Look at 58. He says they provoked him to hang out with their high places and move into Jersey with their graven images. So Most High is in relative sense to other gods. Psalm 82, verse 6. You are God, all of you children of the Most High. Say again in context of God's 83, verse 18 Psalm 91. He that dwells in the secret place of the Most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty. Then verse nine. Thou makes the Lord, which is my refuge, the Most High Diabetic. Now of course here it talks about supernatural beings, verse 5.

The Terror by night, how that flies by day, the pestilence that walks in darkness. The structure that wist at noon be then. Yeah. So this. Okay, you can see verse 11 shall give His Savior shall over the Egypt. Verse 12, buried up in their hands. Verse 13. The lion or the other, the young lion and the dragon. All these are supernatural world beings. Yeah, these are not zoo animals. Okay, so it has Most High, Psalm 92, Verse 1, Most High God. Then Verse 8, Psalm 107, Verse 11. So Most High is a description of God in that supernatural world amidst supernatural beings. One, two also has to do with other nations. As I praise you, Most High is other nations. Now go to Isaiah 14 and verse 14. I will ascend above the clouds or the heights of the clouds I will be.

Now clouds will be the supernatural also of heaven. Right. I will be like the Most High. That's very vital. Like the Most high. Lamentations 3, 35 and 38. Now, another place where you find Most High very used is the book of Daniel. And Daniel is in Babylon, Right? And you know that whether you look at the three Hebrew children, up to Daniel, the contest was about worship of idols, right? So Daniel 3. And verse 26, Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of bony filled furnace and spake and said, shadrach, Meshach and Abednego, you servants of the Most High God, come forth. Why did he say Most High God? Because there was a clash, and I told you that the burning furnace. Now we will see it as literally burning furnaces, the fire and all that.

But Israel and what happened to them in Egypt is also called that burning furnace. So just like the Exodus was a clash of God and gods, let me say, I mean, show the authority that he created them. This is what is happening here. So Nebuchadnezzar was also said, this is the Most High God. Again in relative sense to other beings. Daniel 4:17. The matter is about you of the watchers and the mind of the Word of the holy ones. You see, Watchers, holy ones to the intent that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men and gives whosoever he will sets up over the basis of men. Again, among supernatural beings is called Most High, Verse 24, Decree of the Most High, which is common upon my Lord the King.

Verse 25, verse 32, verse 34, 25, 32, 35 Daniel 5:18. Again, worship is in view. And 21 Daniel 7:18. The saints of the king of the Most High shall Take the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, even forever and ever. Daniel 7:18, Daniel 7:22 Unto the ancient of this came and judgment was given to the saints of the Most High. And the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom. 25 And 27 go to Uzziah 7:16. So this is in Babylon. So that. That shows you that there were supernatural beings worshipped in nations. But this is in Bible say the Most High is here. So what we are seeing what an Old Testament reader is reading here, Daniel, Abednego, and of course others of their kind are in a mission field. That's what it is.

So that's why we have that concept of Most high God. Hosea 7 and 16. They return not to the Most High. Their prisons shall fall by the sword of the reeds of their tongue, and they shall be delusion in the land of Egypt. Again, this is idol worship in context. Hosea 11 and verse 7. And my poor bent to backsliding. For me, backsliding is actually worship of other idols. So you have Most High used in the relative sense of idol worship. So where is. How did nations have idols? I'm using the word idols because of modern thinking, right? You know, we're not talking about idols, right? We're talking about supernatural beings, hosts of heaven. Am I right? But let me use idols because of how it can easily, you know, resonate what I'm saying to you.

Luke 22:8 says that it was the Most High that divided the nations, okay, According to the number of the sons of God. And of course, there's an argument that is talking about nature of Israel, but it's very weak. It doesn't even fly. So this is Genesis 11. Interesting. Genesis 11, a very short commentary and carries a lot. Genesis 11. And what's happening? Genesis 11. People in one accord are building a sacred place for God. Okay, we're going to see Paul's argument here. I wrote it on Monday. Genesis 11:4 to build up a zuga at a city and a tower. Now, this is the text of Jeremiah 2:8. Now look at Paul's interpretation before we get there. Acts 7 and 48, don't forget the term most high. Is that clear? We say most high is in comparison, right?

Also, when you cross into Gentile territory, that's ancient Israelite, right? When it comes to Gentile territory, where they are in the worship of other gods, you say most High gods. That Most High God we call becomes a codified language for the fact that we are the chosen people. God has allowed the nations to go after their lost. Then he created his own mission called Israel to reach out to the old nations, so that all through Israel, all nations of the earth will be blessed. That's the codified language behind Most High God. Look at Acts 17. So how does the New Testament writer the author, how do they use this concept? We're going to see shortly. Are you here? Are you following. Acts 17? Okay. Acts 7 first, where you have Stephen is preaching. Then notice the context verse. I'll start from verse 40.

I'll start from 39. To whom our fathers will not obey, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back again unto Egypt, saying to Aaron, make us gods to go before us. For as for this Moses, which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him. This is Exodus 32, then verse one. Then it says, they made a calf in those days and offered sacrifices to the idol and rejoice in the works of their own hands. Now, notice that when they made that. Notice this very well. They made the calf, which is an image, right? That image is supposed to be like the expression the selem of an unseen God. He said, these are the gods that took us out of Egypt. They couldn't have said this? This thing that we just made now.

But they are saying that, look, if Moses will. So if wherever Moses, there are some beings we can interact with. I did not make a molting calf. Pay attention to how Stephen gets in on this. Then God, they made a calf and rejoiced in the works of their own hands. The works of their own hands. Is that Genesis 11? Because they are the works of their own hands. Now, the works of their hands there is the place of dwelling of the being. The works of their own hands. You notice that the two people. Asides, let's look at the sacred. First thing we have Genesis 3:2. Sorry. God planted his own garden. That's the genesis. Then in Genesis 6 and 7, he gave Noah the description of how he should build. That's a temple, not a boat. Okay? He gave him the scripture.

Do this, do that. So by Genesis 11, men built it by themselves. Okay, pay attention. By themselves. So in Exodus 25, God again gives Moses description that you build according to pattern that is shown to you. So it's not the building that is the issue. It is how they build. You cannot build for God. He is the one that will tell you where he will dwell. Is that very clear? Aha. So this is the point. They God turned. Verse 42 and gave them to worship. Gave them to worship. What? When? Act seven. To worship what? So notice Host of heaven has been changed. Gods, right? Are you following? Host of heaven is written in the book of the prophets. Whole year of Israel have you offered to me. Slaves be the sacrifice to the space of 40 years.

In the wilderness they took up the tabernacle of Moloch, the star of your God Reman figures which you have made to worship them. And I'll carry you away. Beyond Babylon our fathers had tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had pointed speaking to Moses that he should make it according to the fashion he had seen. Now, they did this while Moses was building a space for God. I mean for them to worship and interact with God. They went behind to go and build something. Our fathers, verse 45, which are also our fathers, which came with Jesus. The position of Gentiles whom God drove out before their fathers in the days of David, who found favor before God and desire to find tabernacle for the God of Jacob. But Solomon built him a house. I said, but Solomon built him a house.

How be it? He says, the most high dwells not in temples made with hands, as saith the prophet, Heaven is my footstool. So there are two things that come in there. His house is the whole earth. So to say this is his house is to demean his person. That's what happened in Genesis 11, to demean him the earth. Imagine somebody telling you get coming to your house and saying that is. And says that room is your house. Are you crazy? The earth is his house. So when you build a place for him, right? It in itself, it is a lack of disrespect, a whole sense of dishonor. Why then did he tell Moses to build? Moses was building so that they will see the picture of the earth. That was why Solomon said, this place is not your house. Solomon said it.

He said, the heavens cannot contain you. So every time they were building said, no, this is not the place. But this is just to be a witness of what the earth is to you. Are you following what we are saying here? Are you following what I'm saying here? Good. So when this happened, it says how being 48, the most high dwells not in temples made with hands. Does this go back to Genesis 11, verse 4 through to 8 temples made with hands. So we can say therefore that the Bible is also a book of God's plan for the earth. It's a book of God's plan for the earth. Now look at Acts 17 pay attention to that word temple. Maybe hands. Paul is in a place again where worship is inferred. I'll just. Verse 22.

Paul stood in the midst of Mass Hill and said, you men of Athens are perceiving all things that you are too superstitious for. As I passed by, I beheld your devotions. I found an altar within this inscription. To the unknown God whom you ignorantly worship him declare I to you. Pay attention. God had made the worlds and all things therein. Okay, Seeing that he is the Lord of heaven and earth dwells not in temples made with hands, can you see the contrast? So what is this temple? The whole earth, right? Then it says, neither is worshipped with men's hands. Where is Paul taking us? Back to Genesis 11. Follow as though he needs anything, seeing he gives to all life and breath and all things. So this is the issue in Genesis 11. He does not need it. He doesn't need anything.

By you saying I'll do something for him is an insult. It's a whole lot of dishonor. He doesn't need anything. Seeing that he gave life to all. Then he says in 26, and made of one blood, all nations of men for to dwell on the face of the earth. And appointed the times, and examined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation, that he should seek the Lord, if aptly they might find him, though he be not far. Look at what he's saying here. Paul is saying, it's not what you are building that is making a housewife. It's everywhere is everywhere. The building is to now restore the earth as his sacred place.