Now look at Joel 2. I mean, Acts 2. Where Peter. Look at Peter's interpretation of Acts 2, Verse 19. I will show wonders in heaven above and signs in the earth beneath blood. Now, if you ask them in history, this never happened in Israel, right? Nothing like that. There was nothing like that in the skies. And the fire and the vapor of smoke. The sun shall be turned to darkness, the moon into blood before the great and notable day of the Lord. Come, now look at how he explained it. 27. Thou will not leave my Soul in hell. Okay, let's start from 24. Whom God raised up. I mean lose the pains of death, because it was not possible that I should be holding of it.

27 Because thou will not leave my soul in hell, neither will thou suffer thy Holy One to see corruption. So the resurrection of Jesus is how he explains it. Look at 34. For David is not ascended into the heavens, but he said himself, the Lord sits on my the Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand shall I make thy foes thy footstool. So what he's saying is that when Jesus ascended into the heavenlies in his resurrection, he's saying here, as is Peter, that was when the sun, moon and the stars and the powers of heaven, you know, were destroyed. The host of heaven, the rebellious supernatural beings, were annulled in their powers. Psalm148 learning something. This is the only way that preaching the gospel will have his own wholesome effect on us. We understand what we are doing.

Psalm 148 Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord from the heavens, praise him in the heights. Then he says, praise him all his angels, praise him. Look at how he explains the heavens and the heights. Angels, hosts, praise him, the sun, the moon, praise him, all ye stars of light, praise him, you heaven of heavens, praise you, waters that be above the heavens. We've seen this before for Psalm 103, verse 20 and 21. Again the host look at Daniel 7, Verse 27. And the kingdom and dominion and greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominion shall serve and obey him. I'll read this to you from again the Septuagint. I read another text, but let me resource first.

Then the King of heaven of message of them, and dominion of all kingdom of the heavens shall he give to the holy people of the Most High to rule an eternal kingdom. And all authority will be placed under him. And they will obey him unto the overthrow of the world until the overthrow of the world. I read 6 also I myself, verse 27 that's Daniel 6d will reverence and serve me all my life. For the idols made by my hands were not able to deliver as the God of Daniel has delivered Daniel. So you had we said the idols were images, they were not worshipping things. A very funny thinking. The images are a Salem or call it the same. They are basically a figurine. They are not worshiping things, they are referring to supernatural beings represented by images.

So God counteracts that by saying man is his own image and after his own likeness. Genesis 1:26 through to 28. So our idea of the death of Jesus and what he did must come from that supernatural perspective. Let's see. John 10. I will start this conversation today and continue next week now because somebody brought it up on I think was on Wednesday before church. No, no. Was it Tuesday? No. Yeah, Wednesday. And gave me an opinion. I said, well I've seen this argument even amongst different scholars, John 10 language wise. So I'll look at the language later. Now in verse 34, is it not written in your law? I said, you are gods if you call them gods, unto whom the word of God came and the scripture cannot be broken. So there's this argument, I know some churches have used it.

You are gods. And they are talking about themselves. The Bible says you are gods. And so they assume that this was to believers. But his own argument was a bit different. He said that he thinks that this was to Israel, that basically. Well, let's say Psalm 82, which is definitely where this text is from. God stands at the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods. Let's read the Septuagint just for the purpose of this. I'll just tell you my argument or my explanation to him. Psalm 81. This is from the Septuagint where you have the King James, verse 82. God stood in the assembly of the gods in the middle. He judges the gods. How well would you judge unjustly and take the faces of sinners?

So I told him that, well, if that statement was to Israel, at what point did he assign the nations to every citizen of Israel? No, it couldn't have been. All right, and consider the orphan and the needy. These are definitely rulers. Okay, the orphan and the needy vindicate the low and the poor deliver the poor and the needy judge, rescued them from the hand of a sinner. They did not know they were on the stand. Darkness they pass through and the function of the earth was shaken. Now verse six. I said, you are gods. You are all children of the most high. Just put in the bracket Deuteronomy 32:8, because that has the most high narrative. But you die as humans and as one of the rulers you fall. Okay, stand up though God judge the earth, because you will inherit among all nations.

So I told him it's not possible. This can't be talking to Israel. There was no time any the nation of Israel had judges around the world and if this is explained by Deuteronomy, chapter 4, verse 19 and 20, and Deuteronomy 32, 8, where he says, divide the nations to the sons of God, then. And he wasn't talking about Israel. So this is false. Whose I'm saying here, he falls flash on his face. So I now said to him, which is, I'll take it on a bit more next week. I want to move something else quickly. John 10. Now it's the background that is very critical. Verse 25. I told you. And you believe not the works that I do in my Father's name. You bear them wisdom. Now again, we have to understand the use of name.

I know Rebel is the name of Jesus, and we just have to update it again. Name. We must think like the audience thought. When we say name, we are just talking about Alphabet words put together, description of, you know, your. Your insignia, your symbol of identification. No, that's not what names means. When he said that, they got furious. You believe not because you are not my sheep. As I said to you, my sheep hear my voice. I know them, they follow me. And I give unto you eternal life unto them, eternal life. And they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. Of course, when you hear eternal life is what Paul said, the ages to come. That's eternal life. Eternal life is that Hebrews 9:26. Eternal life is that ages to come.

You can also call it end of the world. So the end is eternal. When you finish it's forever. That is eternal life. Eternal life is not. When you say, I have eternal life, right? I have eternal life. You are right. But I want you to say we're looking forward to eternal life. You are also right. Because it is both now and then, right? His work in us is done, so it's eternal. But his work through us, through his church, is ongoing and is also eternal. Is that very clear? So both are not counter. They don't. They're not counterfacts. No, they are not. So if I give them eternal life, you could say, well, you could. We could expand it. Well, I say I give them eternal life. Again, these are one of those codified languages of the New Testament. I give them eternal life.

You can say they have a place in the Father's house. Is that correct? You can say I put their name in the temple. You are right. You can say, in the ages to come, when it brings all the things together, they are found in it. You are right. You can say right now, you are part of it, you are right. You can say, then you are still correct. Because what he began is what he will conclude. And what is beginning is the end that is still going to end and will never end. Is that very clear? So it depends on how it's explained. So I give myself this. I never perish. My Father, which gave them is greater than all. And no man is able to plug them out of my Father's hand. And he says, in 30. This is where you pay attention.

I and my father are one. So I told the guy, I said, look, if. Okay, there's another argument, though he didn't really agree. I just said that let's say you are God. He's talking about ethnic judges. I said, I thought that way years ago. True, I said, but if it's about ethnic judges and it is true that this was the nation of Israel, I said, look at the background of that statement. I and the Father are one. Okay? Now when he said that, this again decomposes or deconstructs the concept that it was Jesus that started calling Godfather. That's not true. Now, if he was the one that started calling godfather and he didn't know him as Father, he wouldn't be upset. Is that clear? Are you following this? This is really tied to why he was crucified. That's why you must pay attention.

He touched the nerve. A very sensitive one, for that matter. So he says, here, they took up stones again to stone him. Verse 31. Now go to chapter 8, verse 59. Was very cool that this guy took time to listen to me, because that was one of those guys I could. I could answer questions. There are people like that just say, but I took time to explain this to him. I showed myself. I'll go explain it today. The first time they took up stones, you know, when John says again, 8, 59, and they took up stones to cast at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple, going to the midst of them, and so passed by. How did he do it? You ask him, what did he say? Verse 58, Before Abraham, I am. Is that clear?

So it was his claim to deity, to divinity that made them want to stone. Hope you are following now. So the second instance and the first one can be explained with each other. And it says, In 31, they took up stones again to stone him. And he answered and said, many good works have I showed you from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me? The Jews answered and said, for a good work, we do not stone you, but for Blasphemy. Because thou, being a man, makes yourself God. Okay, can we say now, let's think like the Jews. Can you say being a man makes yourself Elohim? Is that flowing? Because the way you will say God is not the way they say God. Make yourself Elohim. Good, that's the point. Now you know.

The same reason was why they wanted to stone him. So pay attention. Is it not written in your law? I have said you are Gods. Now this is tricky because it will mean that he's arguing that a man can consent. Elohim. No, I called them God. If he called them Gods, to whom the Word of God came. Right? And the Scriptures cannot be broken. Whose is the room of whom the Father and sent into the world? Doubtless because I say I am the Son of God. Now I know. Israel in Exodus 4, 20, 23 were called the Son of God. But that's not what he's saying here. They were called the Son of God not as individuals, but collectively. In Exodus 4, of course, there are instances also where they were singled out.

If I do not the works of my Father believe me not. But if I do, though you believe not me believe the works. For you know, but that you may know and believe that the Father is in me and I in him. Therefore they sought again to take him, and he escaped out of their hand. So his claims of deity. Now if he was referring to Israel being called the Son of God, they wouldn't have been upset. What he was laid claim to was the most high. That was lame claim. So by using Son of God in referring to those beings of Psalm 82, he was saying, if those who fell out of line are called sons of God, why then are you having a problem with me, who is doing the works of God, that I call myself a Son of God? God.

So quickly go to Matthew 26. 63. This is before k first. So you see, it's interrelated. This is why he was crucified. One second, please. Yeah. Now in verse 63 they tried to the temple. One came in, but they. They couldn't get a witness against him. Then Jesus. But Jesus heard his priest, and the high priest answered, I adjace by the name. So they couldn't. There were two things. There was no reason, like I said in the earlier session. They couldn't take anything that was against the government. All those things they were trying to speak, say things. No, there was nothing like that. They found no fault. Interestingly, Herod and Pilate, who were not friends, agreed together that this Guy has done nothing against my government. He hasn't said anything he has spoken for. No, it's not a problem for me.

So when he now asked him, I adjusted by the living God tell me if you be the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus answered and said to him, just said to him, thou hast said, nevertheless, I say unto you, hereafter you shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power. Now that is Lord of hosts, right? Coming in the clouds of heaven. That's the host of heaven, huh? Very well. The high priest rent his clothes saying so, which means they had two things, you know, there are two things they wanted to stone him, which this is why in stories I'm going to explain it that it is the, when it comes to blasphemy, the Jewish culture or the Jewish practice to stone, right, it to stone.

It's the culture of the Greco Roman to hang on a tree or a cross. But just showing you the unjust nature of the whole trial. So blasphemy is stone. That's why the first two instances they went to stone because of that Son of the Blessed, the Most High, that Daniel spoke about, who will sit above the host of heaven. So when he said that, he said, what further need we of witnesses? 65 Because now you have heard his blasphemy, so he is guilty of death. So if he was equating himself with earthly judges called sons of God, this would not have been a problem. So John 10 is not earthly judges. If it was, Jesus never interpreted it as human beings, you are God. There is to the host of heaven. Is that very clear? Aha. And he is seated above it.