He said, whenever you say outright error that is taken as truth. That take an extra attempt to make sure that people are seeing it, that you are not saying the same thing. 2Nd Timothy 2:15. You know, you make it clear that this is not the same thing, that we're not saying the same thing. You know, it's the same way that, you know, if you go to white government churches, I'm not saying white government churches are wrong. There are a lot of people that are born again and they have the spirit of God and then white government churches. So that's not. I'm not doing the classification, but there was certain things that were happening at some point where people would just decide to. Who was I even talking to? And we got to one point and I said something, that I know this.

Who was it? If I was someone that was talking, I've been to this place, so. And they now carry spirit, you know, carry spirit is. I can't say to Yoruba. So they will leave the realm, then they will stay in one house, you know, so, you know, they're not careful. Somebody, for example, now falls into a trance, you'll say, you know, so an excess is not a reason. But people fall into a trance. People, people. And they can do wet stuff. Yeah, you know the keyword. That's why someone like Kevin Higgins and what he did. I can tell you this, when I say this, I'm going to be misquoted. I don't really care that the Charismatic Church owes Kenneth Hakin a lot in helping that sanity of the written word. A lot.

I don't know anybody and I've said that in many places and nobody has faulted it. I don't know anybody in the last 500 years of the church who has been able to explain the ministry deeds, the things of the Spirit. Like I begin, I've not seen anybody. I've tried it. I've done my studies, I've done my research. No, that call it balance of. Look, this is the word. It's the word. I don't say word and spirit. It's still the word. But look, the word now says. Now this is just like that. 23 And Jeremy 13 we know by the message. So the message is always our check, discernment. But discernment must not discern you out of the practice. So when we come together and it's called the House of God, host of heaven involved. Hebrews 12:22.

Look, when we are come, that word is the present continuous. Which means that every time that we have an assembly of believers from your new birth experience. Because when you are born again, you are born into Zion. Every gathering is Mount Zion. Every gathering is city of the living God. Every gathering is undercover angels. Every gathering is kind of witnesses. Every gathering has host of heaven. Every gathering. Now you may decide not to see it, just like Jacob said the Lord was here. I did not know. You may decide to ignore. You may decide to even mock it. On the day of Pentecost, they were calling them names. You may decide to when God became flesh. And they were calling me fornication. Born of fornication. So you can. You may even put irreverence to it.

But it doesn't change the fact that what is happening there involves heavenly realities. It's what it is. So in this series, I will say it again. The objective as we move away from the introduction and we go into the Details. And when I say details, I want us to break it down to this application and we see it. That's why I'm very careful. The next phase, I've not gotten into it yet. I'm looking at somewhere we can just dedicate some data and face it, the production of that particular site and understand it at once, you know, I hope it will happen very soon. So that idea, or that idea of the Old Testament is done away with is a major flaw. Not knowing what the Old Testament is a major flaw in modern theology. A major flaw.

Now the extreme carelessness is for some to say, okay, which means that we can use the Old Testament anyhow. I call someone and say, don't use it anyhow. You are going to do what the Pharisees were doing when Paul said that they did not know what they are affirming or teaching. You don't know what it is. It's not by rushing into some to say that I can see this spirit of Ayato King will calm down. Do you understand? So the host of heaven are involved. So began to look at Prince Fascist power might dominion. Paul. Everybody in the Greco Roman world knew that they are not the same thing. If I used to think because I was in a prayer group and we used to pray, you know, and all that I was in my secondary school, we used to have this prayer.

In fact, I remember there was this particular. I will never forget it. A principal came and banned the fellowship. I said no more fellowship. That if you just go to the school chapel. He said even the school chapel, that it will just be. It will be organized. He just gave a rule. And the man was a new principal and he could speak very, you know, very lovely English. And that's how the brethren came together. And we're going to pray, you know, and we said that those things looked. We didn't have as much light. We said that really that in this school that we have authority over the principal. And we're saying it so I remember all the prayer points say we had Psalm 16 Let God arise, let the enemies come. Let God arise and his enemies. And when we are singing that song.

If you have. If you are a witch, you will manifest so. Those are always very hot. They've got that right. And his enemies be scattered. They've got that right. And then we are praying. Behind every principle there's a principality. I will never forget that when I heard I said cool. Yes. That today we declare. Let me say something to you. That principal didn't use One term they removed him. So I said, why? You know and when See now, of course what happened there? You're asking me something that the gospel will deal with it. It's simple. You don't have to have the exousia. No, no, no. Just know that you are seated on high. That was all we're saying. We didn't know. I didn't even know what we just said. We can remove this man.

When I went to Oliver College, our vice principal now told me that I hear you are the one that come to come and confuse the students and all that. He said, look that you will never come back to this school again. Was a Friday. I said, I will come back and I won't meet you. They removed her. I didn't have light like that. I just. Maybe Joshua believe. I think I say where we use our words. But the point was we knew that this is not ordinary. Why would you come and say we should if fellowship that have been existing for how many years just said no, we should stop. The man just say we said no. They just do chapel that you bring somebody. Maybe now he's not even born again. We need to go for house kids go for political evangelism.

Now we go guy say, oh, We held our hands and were fasting. Tell these school boys we're fasting. Say we take authority over this place and all that. And sometimes we do fasting for Muslims. And we just been asked that prayer. One time secondary school, we did a prayer chain. And so that prayer chain with me, we pray 24 hours a day. So we now have two. Two people who pray together three hours secondary school. And then, you know, there was one guy they paired me with. The guy was on my wall yesterday. And the guy, he doesn't stop praying. His wife will say. I said, boss, it's three hours they gave us. Let me give. I will just be 24 hours. Because we are going to take on this thing.

You know, if the church should see that prayer is where we dispense this. There is no better way to dispense spiritual authority like prayer. Prayer. I will just take authority in the place of prayer. So Paul breaks it down and he says that they're stuttered. I used to. I would say that I used to think are the same thing. When I read Triumphant Church said no, they're not. And I used to that thing, you can't really see it. And he broke it down, said no, they're not the same. Of course, in studies today, what I've seen that really that it's Paul using the modern then, sorry, the Greco Roman language to explain that. See the way this is structured, where you have dpo, where you have area command, where you have this one and you have jurisdiction, that is how the whole sovereign are.

I wish you guys this one. You see, one is for the night, one is for seasons, one is for day. That brings to our mind that we must know what we are engaged with. You can't be spiritually illiterate. That's too sad. You can't be spiritually illiterate. So he breaks it down into different things. I'll just give you a hint. If I take it on tomorrow or sometime, it's me. But look at 2nd Kings 17. A friend of mine who pastors abroad, he sent something to me on this text and I just showed him my notes. I. I just said, see my notes? I was going to teach this. I said, oh wow. I said, yeah, said, see this? I was going to explain this in the service. 2Nd Kings 17.

So if the death of Jesus could, you know, when he said all authority in him, heaven and earth, pay attention. And he says all the nations. Then Paul says he dealt with principal and powers which have to do with locations. Which means, as it were. Let me try and say this, and I'm. I. I'm not sure, I don't want to take it literally, but it's with as it were, the death of Jesus in the Spirit covered every space. Like in the three days he went around the old earth. Right Now I'm not talking literally now, but I'm talking the kind of authority has it only three days, the whole earth.

Then he comes to the church and he says, go and preach the basa, the gospel, the huajileon hewage Leon is the news of a king, a new king or new territories that have been claimed. So in 2nd Kings 17, watch this. And verse 29. He says, how be it every nation made gods of their own and put them in the houses of the high places. The Samaritan had made every nation in their cities wherein they dwelt. Now listen, the word house there is the word beath b a y I t h from where Jacob came up with the house of God, Temple of God that every nation, which is the word goyi g o y goy now when you come to New Testament, the word nations refers to people who are bound by tribe, language, culture, practice. Right? Now pause.

Let me say something very carefully. Anything that binds people, that makes people unite, habit thinking pattern is preferred. Anything that binds people such that they think alike, talk alike, reason alike is supernatural. Are you here? That just binds them, that unites people. Now of course, if I go to school and we all study medicine, I mean we all went to study medicine, but what now begins to unite us? We are thinking alike, we're reasoning alike, you know, we now have a culture, it's supernatural. So the word goi g o y the New Testament calls it ethnos, which is nations, nation is not necessarily just tribal as touching native language. It's also people bound by culture, bound by actions. That gives identity. Now notice what he says here. Every nation made gods of their own.