Then verse 12 Beloved, think it not strength concerning the faith trial, which is to try you as though some strengthening that happened to you but rejoice in as much as you are partakers and most of them we don't read this kind of rejoice of Christ's sufferings for when his grace shall be revealed, he says, you may be glad also with exceeding joy, if you repose for the name of Christ. Happy are you for the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you on their part it's evil spoken upon your part he's glorified. But that gives you a caveat. Let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief. That's not persecution, evil doer, or as A busy body in other men's matters.

He says, if a man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on his behalf. For the time is come that the judgment must begin at the house of God. And if first begin at all, they shall be hand of them that obey not. The gospel. Chapter 5, verse 1 8. Be sober, be vigilant, because you advance to the devil as a rule walks about seeking whom resist steadfast in faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. He now says in 10. The God of all grace, who had called us into eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish you, strengthen and say to you. Some ministers now took the word settle. I'm not joking. They said, God will settle you.

He will settle you. Can you imagine? This is about suffering for the Gospel. So without doubt, if you were in the audience of Peter, what? What is in your mind? Persecution, right? Persecution from authorities, persecution from civil authorities as touching the Gospel. Is that very clear? Good. This will guide us. So if this is true, persecution from civil authorities, go back to first Peter three. I'll move as quickly as possible. 17. Again, it's better if the will of God be so that you suffer for well doing than for evil doing. For Christ also once suffered for sins the just for the unjust, that he may bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. So the background of this again is a suffering of Christ compared to the suffering of the Christian. That is the background.

So let's backtrack a bit. The suffering of Christ, was it human or supernatural or both? Both. Good. So it involved human agency. But it was primarily from the supernatural world. The princes of this world, and they know it first Corinthians 2. They wouldn't have crucified the Lord of glory. So we have a thinking. Is this about Noah, the people in the days of Noah? I'll leave it to another time, but I'll just give him to think. Or Noah was just used as an aside or like an allusion. Now think about this. In verse 18, when he said he went and preached to the spirit prison. The word Caruso means to announce. Now, this word Caruso is often identified with the gospel. Now it is not every time that the gospel preached is meant to save.

Remember in Mark 16, he that believes not shall be damned. Are you following me? Now, when you go back to the Old Testament and take the word bazaar, sometimes what the basa, the career of the news just says that we have won is to inform you that something has happened or to declare an existing victory. Now this is just for today. Is this writer saying that between the cross to the throne, that when Jesus rose from the dead and he led captivity captive. Ephesians 4, 8 and 9. All right. That he announced to those disobedient spirits that he had triumphed over them. Now do you know why this is important? The audience are thinking we are under persecution. This is caused by civil authorities. Peter is saying, yes, Jesus was the same way. He suffered civil authorities, right?

Cephas, the high priest, Herod and Pilate. But we know there was a supernatural world dimension to it. So pay attention. Is this writer Peter saying that Jesus by his resurrection has triumphed over all that are persecuting you? And then he infers that the same way he did it to the spirit. Imprisonment. All right. Who have been conquered that we are announcing the same thing? Because in the days of Paul, when you preach the gospel with a counter narrative, when you preach the gospel, you say Jesus is Lord, not Caesar. It was to tell those authorities that whatever is behind your throne has been spoiled by Jesus. Is this what Peter is saying? Now look at the conclusion. So I'll leave you at that in verse 22. Now listen again. By which he went and preached to the spirits in prison, which sometimes were disobedient.

When once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, where he filled, that his eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us. Not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience was God by the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Let's say 22 together. Who is gone into heaven and is on the right hand of God. Angels. Stop. Can those angels and authorities be those spirits watch and powers being made subject to him? So the spirits in prison pay good attention. Are they referring directly to these supernatural beings? Or it's in consonance union with the men that were used or just the supernatural beings? If we follow the pattern of Paul's writings, the triumph of Jesus was never to shame men.

So the triumph of Jesus was not in any way to put any seal on the defeat of anybody a human being? No, it was about the host of heaven to bind the strong man. So we have a whole lot to think on in the spirit in prison might not be, should not be, could not be, or are not the men in the days of Noah rather the supernatural beings, that the death of Jesus asserts the authority of man over those beings, in spite of what happened in the days of Noah. Because the days of Noah was also called vexation, persecution. So by likening it, you know, Jesus also use it Also in Matthew 24 to persecution, affliction, tests and trials. He's saying that the death of Jesus confirms you have authority over the agencies of tests and trials.

Are you following what I'm saying here? So therefore spirits in prison, there might not be human beings. We're going to look at it together again. But we have quite some evidence from our study so far that the spirits in prison are the supernatural beings. That is consistent. First Corinthians 6, though you know that you judge angels is consistent. Hebrews 1 is very consistent in the death of Jesus. And maybe I should add this. It is almost unlikely because the use of spirit by New Testament author. There is hardly a New Testament author that referred to man as spirit. None. They can refer to the makeup of a man as spiritual, but they never did. Not Paul, not Peter, not John. So the human spirit for those men is very unlikely. We have not concluded, and I hope you have not.

Amen when you say, so, therefore my grandfather can be saved. So that's the context here. So coming back again to say, I will close on this, not immediately, that the earth is a supernatural world. I'm saying to you that this earth is a supernatural world, the way we know it is. What does God say about the earth? He calls it his temple. He says it is his holy hill. It's supernatural. Look at second Samuel. That's second Kings five. So consider this. I mean, I mean on Saturday I will. I'll pick up on this and then we'll do some second Kings five. Look at that Naaman story. When the azi had done all the other. When Naaman came to Elisha said, look, go and wash yourself. The nice thing here is very clear. He asked him to go to Jordan to wash himself.

Second Kings five to wash himself. And he did. Because he was forced and insulted. He went and as he was seven times. And that narrative goes back to Joshua. We're at the same place Israel crossed. And several times they entered by circling and praising God. Seven times they entered into the land of Canaan through Jericho. He told him to do the same thing. Now those symbolisms will remind you of something God has done before. Now this is what is called gospel. That is, I'm reminding you of an exploit. God has done something he brought down the gods of Canaan. So I'm reminding you now he's talking to an idol worshiper. So the guy understood it. You know what Rahab said? He said, we have heard what the God of Israel did in Egypt. So he's hearing it. Okay, go and wash.

The seventh time, his entire body was cleansed. When that happened, he went back and offered gifts. But we usually miss something here. And the man said, I don't want. So I know there's a God. Look at what he said in 15. I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now, therefore, I pray. Now this is an idol worshiper speaking. Take a blessing of thy servants. And. And then Elisha said, as the Lord liveth before whom I stand, I receive none yet will take it. But he refused. The Naaman says, shall there not then I pray thee be given to thy servant. Two moons burden of the earth, for your servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering, verse 17, nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord. Now, the two things he has said.

Is that a confession for salvation? He has said two things. There is none other God. That is what salvation is. He said, and I worship no other God. So he took the dust of where Elisha was and said, I'm going to take it where I am the dust, and I begin to worship Yahweh. He now says something else which is intriguing. He said, but this thing. Pardon thy servants, say my master, because he's under. Someone goes to the house of Raymond to worship me. If you. If you ask today's preachers, this one, hey. He said when he goes there, he leans on my hand. I walk with a Muslim. That's what he said. I walk with an idol worshiper, he said, so I borrow his eye. Heaven is your home. Go. I walk with another worshiper. I worship you. I've already confessed.

Jesus is my Lord. I watch. You have somebody who just was born again for a Muslim family, say, my parents. My husband says, go to the mosque. No, you have to do it for Christ's sake. And when they send out of the house, say, I live in one bedroom. My family don't worry, go and stay in church, not here. He says, hand lives on my hand and bows to the house of Rimmon. When I bow myself down, the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardoned thy servant. That is, if my master is bowing down and I say, I have to stand, sir, you know, I'm a new creature. And your job requires that you are covering him. You have to Also bow. Say you can't do it. You are in the house of Rimmon. Your heart has to remain pure.

Today we read for book of life. Elisha said, no problem, go in peace. No wallah by what he said. You know who he worships? You know, someone has showed you. You know, in my house. You now say, go public and declare your faith. He's the first son of a Muslim cleric, a man that is known all over Lagos. Declare your faith. You, you were born again in the Anglican family. Your persecution was. Which church you are attending? This one. Say you are what you have to say. If you go there and say this is me, L. You lose your. He said no. You have sworn allegiance to Yahweh. No problem. Can you see what it is? You'll be surprised of who are born again. Something I cannot see. On the pulpit they say that person because it doesn't come to your church.

Is your church in all the world? Can any church take everybody? No. I went to. I was praying in general camp and I saw the light of auditorium. I arrived where lights auditorium. You see that one parish somewhere in one corner people are going there. They are not going to the large one. You think they should have aroused. Come and join us. Come and join us. You see, people are born again. We are not born if you are not to be. Someone said, you can't be born again. All these are christocentric boys. You can't be born again and be uttering. Tom, look at him. Where are you just looking it up? Four years ago, Ordinary four years. You are making mouth all the tongues you spoke in four years. I mean, how. How many hours can you put in the tip?

He said there's no problem. Are you following my point? I will have resigned. So just go back to the bus. Sir, when I went to the house of Elisha, I received a new life. I can't walk here anymore. What's going to happen, sir? God will take. Are you going back to the pastor to take care of. Oh God. Ask me before you talk. Ask me before you say I resign. Before I resign. You have carried the moon and go. Are you following? I think I'll stop there. I'll take the. So there was the place of the earth. They knew the earth belongs to God. The earth is his place of worship. The earth. Every place in the earth is his place of worship. We saw somewhere. I'll take it again later on when Jesus got there, said, why have you come torment us?

Jesus went to places because the earth is the Lord. So this earth is a supernatural place. The earlier you know, the better. And the earlier you act that way. Now don't become. I know, for example, that Chelsea had a spiritual problem. The pastor said it yesterday. He said, how can you take a club from a man? I didn't give him money. Oh, I said, you are right. I was so happy. I dab is coming. I said, so be it. For those. Everything spiritual. They're not passing your books. I'm not passing my exams. Say spiritual. Do you read? Say every time I want to. I'm sleeping. You are stupid. I want to read. That's not a spiritual problem. That is a problem. That is spiritual. I'll continue again on Saturday.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/