He cast upon them the first of the anger, wrought indignation and trouble by sending what can you see it? So all those things were supernatural. Now the word sending there will appear. Like I'm going to make an assumption now that you are members of this church. The word sending is the word Mish salad M I S H L A C H A T H It's taken from a popular word we have explained. If you read his worth. We explained this word severally. Shalach S H A L A C H It means to give over. When you just look away, when you are not doing something, but you're not doing it as judgment. It's like you have done something by not doing something. We've explained that it allowed. So what we saw in Egypt were supernatural beings. Now look at Psalm 1: Ram 5.

It lets us see that this was the supernatural world. Psalm 105. Sorry. And verse 28, he okay, let me type 26. He sent Moses and his servant. His servant. Sorry. And Aaron, whom he had chosen, and he showed his signs among them and wonders in the land of Am. He sent darkness and made dark. They rebelled against his word. Then he says, he turned their waters into blood and slew their fish. So again there's a description about what happened in Egypt. But look at verse 39. He spread a cloud for a covering and a fire for a to give light in the night Hebrew asked and they brought quails and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. So what we are reading in Egypt was supernatural. Now look at Exodus 15, the Red Sea narrative. Again. We read this before. Verse one.

I will sing unto the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously the horse and his rider as he throw into the sea. The Lord is my strength. He says the horse and his rider, which is singular. Pharaoh came with an army, says the horse and his rider. God is my strength and sons he's become. My salvation is my God, and I'll prepare him and appreciation of my father's God, and I'll exalt him. Lord is the man of war. Lord is named. Pharaoh's chariots and his host are they cast into the sea. His chosen captains also were torn in the Red Sea. The belt have covered them. They sank in the bottom as a stone. Then he says, thy right hand, O Lord, has become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, has dashed in pieces the enemy.

Now when you see God back up an army in the Old Testament against another nation is because they are also backed up. Always get that. It's not regular warfare. Are you getting this? It's not so he says, has the enemy. Then watch this. In the greatness of thy Excellency, thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee, sent forth their wrath, which consumed them as stubble with the blast of their nostrils. The waters were gathered together. The flood stood upright as a heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea. The enemy said, I'll pursue, I'll overtake, I'll divide the spoil. My Lord shall be satisfied. Upon them I'll draw my sword, My hand shall destroy them. Thou didst blow with thy wind. The sea covered them. They sank as a lead in the mighty waters.

Now let's read verse 11 together. Who is like unto thee, O Lord? Amongst the gods. So that thing happened. Amongst who? The gods. That's the background. So it's not a regular warfare. Where there's judgment, there's supernatural beings. Where there's redemption, there's supernatural beings. Remember what he said to Pharaoh. He said, moses, look at Exodus 4, Verse 22. Thou shalt say to Pharaoh, thus said the Lord Israel is my son, my firstborn. And I say to you, let my son go, that he may serve me, he may worship me. So that conversation was about worship. Exodus 5. Thus said the Lord God of Israel, let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. It's about Worship. So when he put Israel in bondage.

If you, if you now pause a bit, you remember that I explained this to us, that the same thing happened to Daniel, I mean the three Hebrew boys, that red furnace that burned with fire was now used to typify what happened to Israel in Egypt. It's also a burning furnace. So the burning furnace in Daniel was used to typify what happened in Egypt. It's about worship. What he tell the Hebrew boys to worship. What was Daniel 2? Worship. So at the core of scripture is worship. Never forget this. This earth is a place of worship. There is no one not worshipping something because human beings were created to worship. That's what they were created for. So here, let's look at something again. So it was a class of gods. Yeah, a clash amongst gods who is like unto you.

That's why it's called Lord of hosts amongst the gods, who is like you. So if that's the pattern of rescue and redemption in scripture. So when Zechariah was talking about, he has sent visitation to his people, he's going back to Egypt. Redemption. All those words. Redemption, apolotrosis. All those terms are Exodus language. So the New Testament writer is using those words. Firstborn, firstborn, redemption, firstborn, redemption. All those terminology. Lasterian propitiation. You have those words. They are all Exodus terms. Does he retain the context? Yes. The supernatural world was involved. That's why in the death of Jesus. I'm sorry, in the birth of Jesus. What was the evidence? The host of heaven, A bright light. The star that led the magi. The wise men was not the stars. They are looking at anyone can. That's time. Let's go.

No, I mean Herod would have seen it. It was a supernatural world. They were led by a supernatural being to see where the Messiah was after two years. So even the incarnation had such evidence. Are you here? Look at Joshua 10. Let me give you a proposal. Proposal? A proposition. Sorry. In Joshua 10, Then spake Joshua to the Lord in the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel. And he said, in the sight of Israel, sun stands still upon Gibeon. And said moon in the valley of Ajalon. Let me ask you, when did he ever see son move at the same place? If you see sun is during the day. Are you so sun and moon here? Do you think that's what. What you are? What we see every day is what he's talking about. Look at this.

The sun stood still, the moon stayed. Unto the people that have bent themselves upon their enemies. What has happened? What do you think is going on here? It took spiritual authority. It stayed until they won. Is it for them to see you? To shoot you? No. Are you learning something here? Look at verse 11. I even start from verse 10. The mountains saw thee and they trembled. The overflow of the waters passed by the deep uttered his voice lifted up his hands on high. The sun the moon stood still in the habitation at the light of their arrows they went and the shining of their glittering sphere. So when you see sun and moon used together. Have you ever. The sun and moon don't stay together at the time of the day. That is a supernatural world. Is that very clear?

So those wars were not conventional wars. They were not to situate those wars as to these wars are ridiculous. That's ridiculous Bible interpretation. They're supernatural things. So from the Exodus where the whole Bible when it comes to warfare the Bible the whole scripture fixes its narratives from the Exodus. It was a war, a clash of supernatural beings. That's what it was the Exodus Warfare therefore was fixated on the supernatural world. That mustn't be Bishop. Let's start from the bondage. The worship in the bondage, the rescue in the bondage and the judgment on the oppressors. When you take care of the oppressors, you take care of the supernatural beings. Because heaven and earth work together. Which means the supernatural and the natural. But I would rather this is my own thinking and I want to say this in the way I may change it tomorrow.

I would rather see the natural guy. I said no, the actually the world is supernatural. That in the natural we are only finding expressions of the supernatural. That's what we are seeing. Because if we founded the earth upon the seas, then we should think. We should think. That's why people like brother Hagin will say that man is a spirit. How will you say a spiritual being. Man is a spiritual being. In E.W. Kenyans he the man of the heart. One of the things they said there is a man that science has not seen. They call it the subconscious mind. He said is the hidden man of the heart. So if there is a man in the physical body that no amount of science discovery can see, then I dare say that the natural only gives expression to the supernatural world.

There's a man you can't see. There's a man you can't see. Peter will call it first Peter three, four, the hidden man. Kryptos of the heart. So if Bible pattern is clear on the supernatural world look at something. Look at Psalm 88 again. 89. Actually, the Septim has Psalm 88. Remember that who is like unto me amongst the gods. And you notice that in the Exodus we have some clouds. Clouds, Right, clouds. Good. Psalm 88. I put this in your notes. The death of Jesus from the incarnation to the resurrection is a new Exodus. It's a renewed Exodus. So right from now, let me ask you, which king suddenly becomes uncomfortable? They say, a boy has been born and he's 2 years old. And those Christians came to him and said, want to go and worship the King of Israel?

He's in prophecy and all that. And they said, he's 2 years old. Listen very well. Immediately Error became upset. Who did he call when they said he saw the star? Let's go to it. Matthew 2. You know, you have asked a lot of Christmas stories. You can't ask this part. Matthew 2. Who did he call in verse 4? He gathered the chief priests and scribes of the people and demanded of them when Christ should be born. He gathered people that should know the supernatural world. When would he be born? Sorry. And they said to him, in Bethlehem of Judah, for thus written by the prophet. And they gave him scripture. Then he called the wise men. He said, guys, he said a cry of dungeon. When the time the star appeared. The star, the star. The star that he never saw.

They said to him, and he said to them, go and start the day for the young child. When you have found him, bring him word that I may come and worship him also. And they went. So they saw the star, they rejoice, joy. They went to the house of Jesus. And he vowed. The next day the angel of the lord appeared to them. 13 He said, Look, don't go back. I mean, for 12 lost the vision in the dream and said, don't go back. Go to your country. And he went. Do you think that they just left like that? Your spiritual shielded. So the things happening here had a supernatural context to it. They now left. What now happened? Verse 15. I was there until the death of Herod. Am I spoken of? Look at verse 16.

Then Herod, when he saw he was mocked of the wise men, was exceedingly wroth, and slew all the children that were in Jerusalem, and in the course thereof, two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently required of the wise men who did this in Scripture? Herod. And who escaped? Moses. And Jesus is a new Moses. A renewed ministry of Moses. So no doubt in the death of Jesus, that sudden upset is supernatural. How was he? Remember when they came with soldiers to Jesus and in Luke 22:53, he said, this is your hour and the power of darkness. So the death of Jesus. And from his incarnation, John 1:14, the Word became flesh. Tabernacle, Exodus, language. And dwelt among us. Tabernacle, Exodus, language. Flesh. From his incarnation to his resurrection. What is his death?