He said, this is the blood of the new covenant. The blood. And he's talking from Exodus. He called him the Lamb of God. Exodus. The blood or sprinkling? Exodus, Exodus. A shedding of blood. The Exodus language. So if it is a new Exodus, it cannot but follow the pattern of the book of Exodus, which is a supernatural world. The land they were taken to was supernatural. The rescue was supernatural. Did it have a man's side to it? Yes. Just like Jesus, death on the cross had a man's side to it, an earthly, natural side. When he rose from the sun physically. But like I've always told you, what they saw physically was when he rose from the dead. They saw Jesus physically. He could touch his blood and body and all that. But what rose from the dead is the body of Christ.

There was a supernatural war to the resurrection. Matthew said some people woke up from the graves and went town. When they saw him after the resurrection, in what we call the Ascension, they saw a cloud. What's a cloud in Scripture? Another host. If you remove that context from the death and burial of Jesus and resurrection, you missed it. There's one. Ew. Kenneth said. There's what man saw. There's what God saw and what the devil saw. Psalm 88. 89. Sorry. When you read in King James and all that, you have Psalm 89, but this is 88. The heavens will confess your wondrous things, o Lord, verse 6. Your truth in the assembly of the holy ones. For who in the clouds? Now King James will say, who in the heavens. Right, Right. But the sacrifice. Who in the clouds shall be likened unto you?

Who will be likened to the Lord among the sons of God? Was that what we read in Exodus 15? Who is like unto thee, O Lord, amongst the gods, who is like you? So the Exodus was a spiritual warfare. I think one of. I think is the faith of God. The faith. These are God. We need to explain that the Exodus was spiritual warfare. It's not regular war. It's spiritual warfare. People often went to war with the backing of their gods. That's what the war was about. It's not regular warfare like we do today. So let's backtrack and look at the death of Jesus. So there's no way you explain the death of Jesus and ignore this context. Just say he just died and he offered it to God. And so God the Father just said, okay, I'm satisfied.

And in three days imagine of justice were met. What? Just so that we can enter heaven, please go and sleep. The issue was the earth. Heaven and earth were involved. Now, does the New Testament writer write this about the Exodus of the death of Jesus and resurrection? They do. Look at Paul Colossians 2. Were there the other time. And 15 I've been now this is verse 14. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinance was written against us, which was against us, which was contrary to us. And took it out of the way leading to his cross have been spoiled principalities and powers. He made a shoe of them openly triumphing over them in it having spoiled principles and powers. Now, the language of spoiling is an Exodus language. Look at matthew 12. In the Hebrew in Exodus 12:36 Put your hands in Matthew 12.

Exodus 12:36. The Lord gave people favor on the side of Jesus. They lent them great things and they spoiled Nat SAL N A T S A L okay to escape, to be delivered off to take out of okay. It's used for rescuing. May be a slave be spoiled in Genesis 34:27 is used for a city. Genesis 34:27 29 is when you rescue a slave. The sons of Jacob came upon the slain and spoiled the city. Because they had defined filed their sister. They took their ship, 28, their oxen, the houses and which were in the city and which was in the field. And all their wealth little ones and their wives they took captive. Took their captive and spoiled. That was it. That is, you take what was in their possession. So it's not like to spoil. I'm spoiling the television.

Nuts are to spoil. It means to take away someone's influence, to take away someone's powers. Now so Colossians 2:15. 1/2. Look at Matthew 12:1. We're looking at Matthew 12. 29. Now notice what happened here. He had cast out a demon. You notice there was a lot of casting out of demons in the ministry of Jesus. Now in 25 he says every kingdom divided against itself is brought to the solution. Every city or house divided against himself shall not stand. And if Satan casts out Satan is divided against himself, how shall then his kingdom stand? If I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you.

How else can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods? Except he first of all bind a strong man, then he will spoil his household. He will spoil. Now this is a translation or translation of that word. Natsa in the Greek is the word diapazo B I A R P a V O B I A means to take a person's possessions, To take what was with him. Mark 3:27 Use the same thing. But look at Colossians 2 and 8. The same word was now used for the believer. Colossians 2, 8 Let beware, lest any man should spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. After the traditions of men. The rudiments of the world are not after Christ. So that's what it means to spoil. So to spoil basically has to do with to take from.

So in the death of Jesus, something was taken. He spoiled. Principal and power means that things were taking. And this is referring to the host of heaven. Just the same way in Egypt there was a spoiling. The way Paul uses the Ephesians 1 is different. Ephesians 1 and 21. He says, Far above all principalities, power, might and dominion, everything that is named, not only in this world, but also that which is to come and put all things under his feet, and gave wherever all things the church, which is his body, the fullness. So something was taken, and something was given. First Corinthians 15 and verse 24. Then cometh the end, when it shall have the light of the kingdom to God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and all authority.

For he must reign till he had put all his enemies under his feet. Last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. For he had put all things under his feet when he said, all things are put under him, is manifest that he himself is excepted, which did put all things under him. And that's Psalm 110. 1. The Lord said to my Lord, he said, sit at my right hand shall I make all the enemies your enemies under your footstool. So the writers of Scripture and we can look at first Peter 3, maybe that one too. First Peter 3. And verse 22. Who is gone unto heaven, and is on the right hand of God, Angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him, being made subject to him. Writer of Hebrews 2:14.

For as much as then the children are particular of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the sin that he might through death destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil delivered them with through the fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Now go to chapter 10 and verse 12. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever sat down at the right hand of God. Just as we read now in Hebrews 2. From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool, so in the resurrection there was a show of authority and power. So in the three days and three nights Jesus disarmed supernatural beings. There was judgment in the three days and three nights. It was in the supernatural world.

The conquest of the death of Jesus and his resurrection is as well was over. Hear me. The death of Jesus and his resurrection was over supernatural beings. It's not over men, it's over supernatural beings. So in Acts 1, when he rose from the dead, I showed this in the second service or fourth service. And when he has spoken these things, verse nine, while they beheld, he was taken up. And the cloud was seen out of his eyes. Was taken up. Which cloud? You know, we have seen cloud means what? Selection of spiritual beings. Very well. And while it looks different to what happened, they went up. And as it went up, behold, you think I know you have read your witness book like an aeroplane. So where is it going to? It's going to another country.

If you go up like this, you're going to another country. They're not living there, just they go to some another country. You know, for the shape of the earth, you are going to another country or you are going to another state. Your plane is not going after Nigeria. While they look surprised about heaven, as they went up before, two men stood by them in the world. But these are supernatural beings, so that means it was a vision. While he said, you men of Galilee, why stand thee gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you shall come in like manner. In like manner. The supernatural world context, therefore is the context of the Bible. The law of Moses is an interpretation of the supernatural world using human culture and human language.

The Bible therefore is a book that interprets the supernatural world that must be farm is our understanding. So the death of Jesus is not God conquering men that killed him on the cross? No, it's not God because he offered them forgiveness and deliverance. Just like in Egypt. It wasn't about the cities of Egypt, it was about the gods. God wasn't fighting Egypt, he wanted to rescue Egypt. It was about the gods. And notice we said that the genesis of these gods is in man's disobedience. Jeremiah 22, 8, 9. He gave them up to the sons of God, the host of heaven. 4. You can read that through the Old Testament. You see it. So where there is bondage, there's marital world, right? Where there's judgment and where there is redemption.

So when it says in Acts 2, the son shall be turned the moon to blood, he's saying that the host of heaven, right, Will be taken down in this conquest. They will be judged and not difficult. Quick one look at Psalm 82 and we'll just leave it at that and we'll come back again. Psalm 82. There is something here. That's why the language of preaching the gospel is warfare. So this is going to lead us, what we're going to say in the second session. It's warfare, he says. When we are preaching the gospel, Paul says it can't be with the enticing words of man's wisdom that won't set anybody free. It has to be the demonstration of the Spirit's power. So look at this. Psalm 82. God stands in the conversion of the mighty. He judges among the gods.

How long would you judge unjustly? Now, let's take this to Egypt, right? How long would you judge unjustly? I'll tell the president of the wicked, say, defend the poor and fatherless. Justice should be afflicted and needy. Deliver the poor and needy, rape them out of the hand of the wicked. That is, how long are you going to not do justice? You take that to Egypt. That happens. That's what you saw in Exodus 1. It now says, they know not, neither will they understand. They walk on in darkness, and all functions of the earth are out of. Of course, I said you are gods. All of you are the children of the Most High. But you shall die like men and fall like one of the princes. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for thou shalt inherit all the nations.

Did he do this in Egypt? Huh? Now that word arise, let me explain it to you. Is the Hebrew word kum. I hope I'm right. If I know, I've correct myself. But the Greek of it is the resurrection. So the resurrection of Jesus is that Arise, O God, and judge. Psalm 68. Arise, O God, and let God arise, and let his enemies be scattered. Let also them that hate him flee before him. Now, if you read this Psalm 68. Very well. We've done this study before too. It now talks about the host of heaven, verse 14. When the Almighty scattered kings in it was white as snow in salmon the hill of God is as the hill of Bashan and I heel as the hill of Bashan. Why leap ye heels the hill which God desires to dwell in?

Yea the Lord will dwell in forever. The chariots of God are 20,000 thousand, even thousands of angels. The Lord is amongst them in Sinai and in the holy place. So is this spiritual war. Exactly so the enemies is referring to their supernatural and this is the context of when Paul now says he led captain captive, rose up and he gave gifts as men. So this is the context of the preaching of the gospel. This is the reason why the Old Testament authors use the word basa Warfare word. Gospel means warfare and a supernatural one. Does the New Testament retain the context of the Old Testament? Yes. Not the culture but theology. The theology of the Old Testament fixates the whole earth in the supernatural world and so must we. Let's take a 10 minutes break.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/