So wherein lies Our conversation this morning, at least in the introduction, is to say that the New Testament writer does not change the supernatural worldview. He might change the cultural worldview. All right. The historical cultural worldview will definitely change because time has passed. But the supernatural worldview is not Is an historical fact. It's the real fact of this world that mustn't be sightset. In Hebrews chapter 11 and verse three, the writer of Hebrews arguably has the most consuming sermon where he takes the scriptures from the first event after Genesis 2, which is Abel and Cain, and goes to. In fact, in verse 32, he says, Hebrews 11, what shall I say more? For time will fail me to tell of Gideon. I thought he would say, space will fail me, but it says time.

So it's almost like an oral dictate of what you're writing. And it goes through the Scriptures. But in Hebrews 11:3 that mustn't be lost on us. Through the faithfulness of God, which is what? Faith and our faithfulness, which is the word faith. There is codified language. We understand that the worlds. Now, of course, we have different ways to look at the word worlds. Ainion, which is practically to set things in time. But we also have the word cosmos, which is the arrangement of things. It says we are filled by the word of God. Pay attention. And the things that are seen were not made of things which do appear. The writer of Hebrews gives us that there's a heavenly side of all the events that we read in the old Testament. Hebrews 1:1.

Now, faith is a substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Look at how the word not seen is repeated. Not seen in verse one. The then which are seen in verse three, which do appear, not made of things which do appear. So appearance and the natural vis a vis the supernatural are emphasized by the New Testament author now. So when we read the words of the Old Testament, we therefore must know there is a heaven sighting, a supernatural sighting. That doesn't make it a strict war. It's not the kind of wars we fight today. The wars we fight today based on someone just angry with another person, different conventions are made. But in that then, the supernatural war or warfare was the background of much of the wars that were fought. That's why the news of it is called evangelism.

The news of what happened is called evangelism. So the content or the context of Scripture retains the supernatural context in the New Testament. And one of the things we said in how to interpret text, one of the things we said was go back to the original text. What is theology? There is a theology in the New Testament, usually. And then we said, what's New Testament wall saying? Now if you don't get that and you try to interpret it directly in your world today, you are going to have an error. So we have said a few things here already that the New Testament author is speaking the same context that the Old Testament authority. It might not be historically or culturally so, or language at all, but it is the same theology, because theology is critical. How does God see the world today?

It's how he saw the world then. And that is how or how does the what's his plan for the world today? Is his plan for the world there and will remain his plan for the world tomorrow? The language changes. The people change. Those we are writing will change. Therefore, the language will change. The kind of models they use will change. But the message is the same. So whether we like it or not, we are just as supernatural in the world today. And the world is just as supernatural as it is today as it was some thousands of years ago, even before the world became flesh and dwelt amongst us. For example, let me just make a side comment here. The use of kings, you know, so now we are all kings and the king. Do you realize that? The kings.

Now if you say kings because we're in the kingdom Basilia, I will go to the Old Testament use of kingdom. And they will say, we're kings, we're kings. And they say we're kings. I think in people's minds, is that a king that has a throne? It has to be the Old Testament language of kings and the Old Testament language of kings. A king is usually seen as a kind of an elohim. All right? Is a shade of an elohim. And why were kings called gods? Right? Is because they represented gods. So that a king of a community. In the second session, we won't look at how supernatural natural authorities will see that the king of a community is meant to be. Because don't forget, we'll also view that next few minutes.

Don't forget that we've asserted that Zoe 32, 8, 9 situates the fact that God, at some point, Yahweh. Now, because God is a general word, did give out the nations of the earth to supernatural beings, which is what Paul retains as first passes power, might and dominion. If he did that, and then we have earthly kings in those same places, then it presupposes that the earthly kings are representatives. Just like we said, the word king is also shepherd, king, shepherd, king, shepherd. Then we now have priests and prophet. Neither of the three are natural offices. They don't have anything to do with talents. They are representative capacities. So the writer of Genesis will call the three together image of God. Now, what is the image of God?

It's too general, because image, which is a lamb of gods, are the things you see in temples of worship. But this is the image of Yahweh God. So the image of Yahweh God will be a king, territorial commander, will be a priest, mediator, servant, and of course an intersection altogether. Then also a prophet, one who takes the message from the supernatural world and interprets it. That's what, when we split up the image of God, that's what we're going to find. So if that is so, it therefore means that if John says that we are kings and priests unto Our God, Revelation 5, 8, 9. And Peter says we are royal priesthood, the holy nation, a peculiar people. 1 Peter 2, 9. It means it retains that language.

Paul says we are in the kingdom, Colossians 1, 12, 13 also we are in the kingdom carries the idea that we are kings. Therefore means that the Old Testament and the New Testament have that connection not of audience, but of message theology. We therefore cannot look away from it. So let's look at a critical thing in Luke 4, because we have much, and I must mention this again, that in the same way the death of Jesus has been acted so well that we don't know what happened. I mean, you won't find in many theologies you won't find the difference between what they are preaching and the Jesus film. Jesus film just says that. I mean, some guys were just angry with him and took him on and that was all. And they put him what happened in three Days, everybody else goes numb.

So where did he go? Someone told me, I believe. I said, I know. I believe. Where did he go? He said, well, I think he was in the grave. Alive. He said, no, dead. So that means he was not in the grave. He was still there. He wasn't dead. Where did he go? His mumbling words. He doesn't want to say. He was spiritually dead. A phrase that the world of faith movement uses. And we have been attacked, and attacked we use. Just didn't die on that phrase and we'll still retain it. He says. He said, I believe. I said, did he go to God? Did he go to heaven using that phrase? He said, no. What did he go? Well, I believe there was a place. Which place? Who paid for the place? You know, because you have. You are down on something.

Because you are not up on something. You are down on it. So I said, where did he go to? No movie can ever act it. Where was he? What happened on the cross? I told the guy, I said, if you had opened your mind and read what happened from the cross of the throne of Father and his father E.W. Kenyon, this wouldn't have been so difficult for you. But your problem is that you have sold Lampoon Kenya, that his name has not ever has never been in the book of life. But you now need his own book of life to understand what happened. All right, you know, so here we are. What happened? What happened? Now, notice I showed you something that in the incarnation, nothing happened in the natural, nothing. A very major event was going on in the world.

When I say very major, the most major event, people were doing census. Be careful when we're having census in Nigeria so that you might not know what is going on. They are having census and, you know, doing all those kind of things. And God became a man. And God became a man. But you know something. Are you aware the host of heaven appeared, all right, two years after we saw concept of the Old Testament, the stars. If you thought that was one star that moved from Moshe will be down to Kejar. No. Are you listening? Nobody saw it. So it was supernaturally visible. So those were supernatural indicators. You cannot therefore say the New Testament is silent on the supernatural world. How? When you saw in Luke 2 that the host of heaven were jumping up and rejoicing and all that.

And they were appearing. There was a star constellations that was going on. Supernatural beings appeared to Joseph, you know, to. Before he started tweeting. And it appeared to Mary. You know, that's too supernatural to ignore, too Much the New Testament writer is not silent. You notice that there was as much interactions God had with Joseph and Mary, like Abraham in the Incarnation, even to the wise men from the East. So let's keep all that quickly and go to Luke 4 and see that at the temptation of Jesus the Now I have an interpretation to this that I gradually give out. It's in our book, this Gospel, I think another material. And that's the fact that what is going on here in Luke and Matthew, both of them recorded, is twofold. It summarizes the supernatural world and its conflict with Jesus ministry.

But secondly, the manifestation of this temptation of Jesus is in the authorities, the Pharisees, the Sadducees and the rulers and elders. And in Matthew's dig, he's able to explain it that Jesus being tempted. Now he puts it together as three things in Luke, I mean Matthew 4. But then he goes into breaking down and says, and there was a Pharisee and he came to tempt Jesus. And he came to tempt Jesus. And he came to tempt Jesus. And in all the instances you are able to pick all the said to Jesus under the three concepts of temptation. So in Luke 4 when he says, is Matthew talking literally was led of the Spirit into the wilderness? Or is he bringing us to the Exodus story because he has shown us Jesus, the Son of God, Exodus, Baptism at the Jordan Exodus, Right.

The words of John the Baptist, Isaiah 43, 9, Exodus. So this must be another Exodus narrative. John 1:14 says, the word became flesh and dwelt amongst us pure Exodus. So Matthew chapter four. Well, I'm in Luke four actually. And it says for 40 days Exodus tempted of the devil in those who didn't need nothing. And they were ended. The afterwards was hungry and the devil said to him, if you be the Son of God, Exodus, command this stone to be made to bread. All that Jesus said were in Deuteronomy, the second Law or the New Covenant of the Old Testament, where the background was the Exodus. So Jesus is the king of the new Exodus. He's the Joshua of the new Exodus.

He's the Moses, the new Exodus, as we said, in the name of Jesus, he acquires the personalities of all the Messiahs Christ of the Old Testament. So he says here the devil said to him, if you be the Son of God, it's like saying, if you are Israel. Is that clear? If you are that Israel, command the stone that they may bread. He uses the same Hebrew scriptures. It's written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word. Of God to Romans, chapter 8. 8, Verse 3. They were taking him onto a high mountain. You know, High mountain. High mountain. Showed him all the kingdoms. Now, when we say high mountain, do you assume that Matthew is saying that, you know, he just took him to where? Mount Everest. Can you see the kingdoms of this world on Mount Everest?

No, you can't. There's no plane you can get into in this world that can see the whole world at once. So High mountain here. Old Testament language, supernatural world. Very well. High mountain. And showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time. This is Revelation, right? Good. And he said, all this power will I give you, and the glory of them, for that is delivered unto me. And to whomever I will, I give it. If therefore thou will worship me, all shall be yours. High mountain. In verse nine. This is a quick one. He brought him to Jerusalem. So you notice that this temptation was in different places. He wasn't like, all right, we have passed this one. Okay, one over three. Let's go, let's go. Follow me. Let's go. All right. Jesus come. Is high mountain. We're going.