Second Timothy 3 back on seated on high, verse 15. I'm going to combine two different concepts this session and move as quickly as possible. All Scripture 16 All Scriptures give my inspiration of Gospel for doctrine, reproof, correction and instruction in righteousness. Therefore, the New Testament author derives its authority from the Old Testament. He doesn't sidestep it the way we do today. He never had the privilege or the luxury of calling Genesis to Malachi Old Testament. That was the word of God to him. And the only challenge he had was bringing it to a language of his audience, which is the Greco Roman community, which was largely. I'll give you a bit of history of the Septuagint next week. The Septuagint came up because the Jews were more comfortable speaking Greek. They had just like today, many of us cannot speak our local languages.

What did you just say? If they're not careful, many things will be lost, particularly things that were said in that particular context. So the New Testament author therefore is relying on the Old Testament to interpret his text. You must give the same thing to their text. Like I finished in the last session that in the way we looked at how to w text I'm going to add to it from tomorrow's service. So what we're going to look at two things. I'll just tell you. First service is the New Covenant and the Law of Moses. The second service is why we sin and when we sin. I want to look at it from the word of God. And all the things we are going to see is how to interpret the Bible.

Again, I like to always talk about it because I don't want to get my audience to feel that there's something we are doing out of this world. It's just look at it yourself. This is how it's done. And so we said that in the gems of the methods we looked at the other time we said before you get to how to apply it, you must say how does the New Testament interpret it? How does it apply? Sorry. It's when you get to that point that you bring it to our world and the application has two fold There is the work of the Spirit, which is you. When it comes to the work of the Spirit and the Bible that has to do with bringing it into that everyday life.

That's why a good local church will teach you the work of the Holy Spirit in your life as well. However, you know. And that's why I thank God for Brother King who were able to tell us that the Spirit, this language, the Spirit and the word agree using 1 John 5:7 and the fact that the Spirit of God won't go beyond the written word. And the reason is because we know from 2nd Timothy 3, 16, 2 Peter 1:21, it's the spirit that inspired the written word. And he is faithful, he is consistent. So based on that, he inspired the use of the language.

But he's not inspiring us to be using the language, to understand Tulu language and use our own language, which means that we must use the identification unifiers, which is where we bring two worlds, where it's not likely the authors know each other, not likely people know each other and we bring them together and find out what can we identify in this world, in theology, in today's world, the same way we just look at Romans 13. Now we don't have it. We have democracy. People have asked, is democracy a Bible culture? Well, democracy was from little knowledge I have or knowledge I have, the types of Plato, Aristotle, we have democracy. And that was equally just about the Bible times. But democracy is human creation, and that's what it is.

It has nothing to do with the will of God that people vote or people agree. And that's why I told you that even in church, when we want to make decisions, when it comes to natural things, I allow popular opinions. Oh, what do you guys think? Should we use this color? That color? Even when it comes to what I wear, I don't choose it. I just say if you say it's good, it has to be lulu and all that. But when it comes to spiritual things, the lives of the members, what we emphasize, what God is telling us, it is not popular opinion. It has to be. Sometimes poor people can look at it. Usually we don't have that problem though in our leadership. I can't remember when were trying to find out something very particular about the direction the ministry is going.

And we had. We usually are on the same page. And that's something commendable we leadership that God has helped us to have. So we don't say, okay, 5 oh you5 think we should owe you too. No, that is totally absurd. Do you get it? It's absurd. There's a Bible way to choose things, supernaturally speaking, and that's what you must stick with. So to come to our world today, I'll begin to say, and this is another error because we discover that people assume that kings in the Bible is a government official today. So they use it, you know, alike and talk about prophets. We talk to the presidents and stuff like that. On not understanding the text and how to apply them in today's world to New Testament author.

We have said he takes the world of the Old Testament author and not his language which is very a thin line. You have to separate it and he brings it to his own world. All scripture past graphically all scripture everything is given by it's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction and instruction in righteousness. Let's just run through something very quick. I don't know whether that sounds out. I will start. I show. Okay, look at that. Ephesians 1 and verse. 20. He wrote in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly so raised him. That's height. So we want to look at the concept of resurrection where we have the word Egero most of the time.

Anastasia two words that use for resurrection in New Testament writers biosphere writers Ephesians 1 raised us up together raised us up. Now we have said that he takes his language from where the Old Testament raised us up. Now notice that the background is that Christ was raised up raised us up. Now Ephesians 3:10 now mentions principalities and paths in the heavenly so heavenly up raised up are seen together. Ephesians 1:3 2. Now look at Ephesians 4. He that ascended no, verse 8. When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts to it on high. Now he that ascended, what is it that he also descended first lower parts of the earth. So lower part of the earth, High part of the earth. He that ascended also ascending above, ascended far above all heavens.

So heavens high up that he might feel all things. Ephesians 6. 12. Wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in the high. So we have seen the word high, heavenly, high. Philippians 1:2. Sorry, Verse 9. Wherefore God also has highly exalted him, and given him a name that is above every name. We consider the concept of name too. I'll try and just put all that together. High Colossians 2. Having spoiled 15 principalities and powers and made a show of them, openly triumphant over them in need. Then Colossians 3 and 1. If he then be risen with Christ, seeks those things which are above where Christ sits on the right hand of God high above. Let's go to first Peter. Okay, Hebrews first Hebrews. Hebrews 1, verse 3.

Sat down on the right hand of the majesty. Because I said sat down is David right? Psalm 110, verse 1. That's Kingdom David. Sat down Hebrews 3:1. Because finally sat down. Hebrews 1:13 as well. Hebrews 3:1. Partakers of the heavenly calling. Heavenly calling. Hebrews 4:14. We have the great high priest passed onto the heavens. Jesus, the Son of God. Let's hold fast. Passed on to the heavens. Hebrews 5. Sorry. Hebrews 6, verse 19. We have an uncle of the Sobosos entered in behind the veil. Foreigners entered in. So he uses temple language for the heaven. We'll see why in a moment. Temple language for the heaven. Hebrews 8. We have such a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty the heavens, in Minister, verse 2 of the Sanctuary, the true tabernacle which Lord preach.

And so he uses tabernacle language. So the earth high, so the heavenly of the earth. The high of the earth. It means nine. Hebrews 9:7, the second. When the high priest alone once every year, without blood, where he offered for himself and for the errors of the people. Now he says, the Holy Ghost, this is divine, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. Hebrews 9:24. For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands. So we have moved from heavenly right hand into the tabernacle, what is called the holy place, but into heaven itself to appear in the presence of God. For us now the clear fact is that there is a place in the tabernacle called heaven.

And this gives us the parable there picture of what we are describing here. Hebrews 10. 12 Sat down on the right hand of God. Hebrews 12 and 2. I'll start from 1. So if you have been following this series, it just cuts across for you. It says, wherefore, seeing that we are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, we did study where and what is the cloud of witnesses, the heavenly description. Then it says in 2 Looking unto Jesus, the often finisher of faith, who for the joy that was set before the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Hebrews 12, you have come unto 22 to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God.

Now you see why city is used for living God. Because we are seeing Cain city, remember? Aha. We are seeing living Nimrod city. We are seeing the Hebrews, Genesis 11 City, the heavenly Jerusalem to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly, to the church of the firstborn that are written in heaven and to God, the God of all, and the spirits of just men made perfect to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant and blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of evil. So we have seen the right hand of God, the high, the heavens used together as a picture of the temple. Right? Are you here? And the tabernacle.

So first Peter 1, 1 Peter 3, talking about Jesus, verse 22, who is gone unto heaven and is sat on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him. First Peter 3, 22, first John 2:2 or 2:1. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus. Righteous is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for, but for the sins of the whole world. This presupposes again the right hand, what we call the right hand. I think that's. So we have the concept of high height. Heaven high height. So let's stick with the temple interpretation. First, that the temple has the holiest of all, which is also the heaven. We said heaven and earth with the temple.

So that's why the writer of Hebrews assumes that you know how the temple was standing and what was called the holiest of all, where the high priest would take the blood and all of that. Let's just stick with one word. The word high. High. The word shamayim. Genesis 1:1 in the Old Testament, heaven and earth, Haim is a description, the whole earth space of what is high in the earthly space. High heaven. High heaven and earth. So in Mark. Okay, no, how did I skip this one? Luke 24, Luke 24 and verse 49, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarrying the city of Jerusalem to them you will power from on high. From on high. Now, for the sake of this, I'll go to Acts 1 to see. You know, Acts 1 is basically an eyewitness account here.