I always say world activities, right? Order of things. Yeah. Galatians 4:3 were in bondage under the elemental spirits of the world. We've seen that last week. So which means that there was something more natural, there was something supernatural. They were in bondage under the elemental spirits of the world. Look at verse eight. You knew not God, you did service to them, which by nature are no gods. But now, after you have known God, or rather known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggary elements. Elemental spirit again, where unto you desire again to be in bondage. A version says, impoverished elemental powers. First Corinthians 2, Eight, nine. This is the death of Jesus. But let's even start from six.

Howbeit when we speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not wisdom of this world, nor prince of this world, that come to nothing. Princes of this world. Then he said in verse eight, which none of the princes of this world knew, even though they will not provide a lot of knowing rulers of this age. So when we say age is activities of this world, don't forget I earlier said that when the new personal writer talks about world age, he's talking about order of things, right? The way things are set, not the planet. Good. First Corinthians 15. And verse 24, There comes the end. When shall be the kingdom to God, even the Father? When you have put down all rule and authority and power. For he must reign till he has put all enemies under his feet.

Last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Romans 8, 38 and 39. I guess tomorrow morning at the first second service, we'll talk about the last days issue again. The last days has to do with the resurrection of Jesus. Really? The last days. Eschaton. Romans 8, verse 38. I am persuaded, Paul, that now when he says in verse 37, in all this, we are more than conquerors to him that has loved us. For I'm persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers. He talks about that. And the believer's identification. Second. Shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus. First Thessalonians 2:18. Wherefore we have come unto you, even I fall once again. But Satan.

Now, Satan is slanderer, right? Satan is not slanderer. I just greeted you. Satan is diabolos. He's an accuser, an opponent. Even though the same person has the honor for the two. But they mean two different things. Devil is slanderer. And that's taken from the Old Testament concept of evil, which means to slander, to be against as well, but much more. It's to twist something. All right, but when you talk about Satanas, it's a diabolical, you know, opponent, somebody who opposes you. That's why I use Satan for the church. I devote it to Satan. Someone who opposes you, he will use devil for the church because devil is play, evil is somebody who lies. Satan is not somebody who lies, but devil is someone who lies, who twist the truth. But that devil. But Satan is an opponent. And you and I can be Satan.

That kind of stuff first. Thessalonians 3:5 for this course, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to know your faith, lest by some means the tempter has tempted you. The tempter, someone who tests you, has tempted you. And our labor be in vain. Romans 16:20. So how loud the New Testament author about the supernatural world is? Very loud. Romans 16:20 the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet. Shock me now. Under whose feet? The church in Rome. Okay. Which has to be fact specific. That means there was something that he was talking about. Obviously there was the Roman government, the Roman authorities. There were different issues. The God of priests would rule. That's interesting, I thought stands under our feet. And Paul applies it to a particular situation here.

So the New Testament author in this instance, Paul brings to bear as much of the supernatural world content of the Old Testament writer. Look at John 12 in the statements of Jesus. For those who try to play down the death of Jesus as an offering for God. And that's the pathway because they want to downplay his financial world. You Jesus was. So the story is just that God was angry and he needed pacifying. So he now. Something like that. So I know we've done this study over and over again. So that brings blood and that's all. And there is no heavenly fact to what happened. But the real deal was more heavenly than an earthly vocation. That's why it's okay. But the blood of Jesus. But then we start talking about the blood of Jesus is a physical element. I mean, it's a liquid.

It couldn't have been spirit. And blood cannot inherit the kingdom. And they said no. So when I like the person, I still like the person. Said, well, the death of Jesus is a physical death, but seen as spiritual. I said, that means you are seen in all the types and shadows. It was seen by who? By God? I said no. So I told the person, I said, the problem is you don't like Kenyon, right? I know you don't like Kenneth Hagin. I mean, it works that way. And Kemyon and Kenneth Hagin said that there was more to the death of Jesus than the cross. You don't like it. And because we have sung a lot about the cross. Oh, the cross, oh, the cross. It is finished. All that song again. When you said it is done, you thought, we think like that.

It's not as one. It is finished. And we look at that. John 19:30. It is finished. On the cross. It is finished. How so where did he. Where was he exalted? Far above all Praise Valley, Power Mike and Dubai. That cannot be in the Sanhedrin now. So we need to really, you know, don't play down on that. You may not have loved some faith teachers who went into money gospel, but hey, don't be that way. The truth is that the supernatural world is more prominent in the death of Jesus than what men saw. And what Carol at capture said. There was what men saw and there was what God saw. There was what the devil saw, you know, and what men saw is relatively not as I would say anyway. It's not as. I don't want to say something that may be loose.

It's not as strong. Allow me here. Like what God saw and what the devil saw. What did the devil see on the day of Pentecost? Because there is invisible and the non visible. In John 12:31. Now is the world. Now shall the prince of this world be cast out. Look at how Joseph experienced his death. Now shall the prince of this world the word archon A R C H O N. Where you have among the principalities power might the same word now shall be. You can say principality of this world. Now world, the universe or activities. Thank you. Look at 42. Nevertheless, among the chief rulers. So I remember one of these guys, the guy was trying to say, well, that what Jesus was referring to here were the rulers of the Pharisees. Now shall the prince of the Lord be cast out.

Because they try to play down devil in their theology. It's really ridiculous. There's no deception as deceiving as that. So now look at the play of words. There is a visible here and there's the word invisible. What men will see with synagogue rulers. Jesus spoke about the prince of the world is judged. This talks about princes or rulers. The same Greek word akon in John 16. And verse 11. Because the prince of this world is judged. The prince of this world is judged. Now when I say the prince of this world, judge not referring to your hometown. This is specific These activities and you find unbelief, hatred. Right? Those are the things he's talking about. It's also the prince of this world that every local government know these activities is judged. Luke 22, Verse 23.

When I was dwelling with you in the temple, you stretched forth no hands against me. But this is your hour. And the power of darkness. The word power. There. Now let's go back again. The word power here is Exousias. Exousia. Again you see that in Ephesians 1:19 21. But look at 52. Then look at the play. Then Jesus said to the chief priests and the captains of the temple, the word there is like a commander of the temple. And he uses the Greek word strategieus. Same word you're going to see in Paul's writing strategy. T E G I O S so there was a mansight. Are you here? There was visible and there was the invisible aspect.

So even though the four gospels captured the eyewitness account in the words of Jesus and the words of those who related with him, you saw the supernatural world in the. In the four Gospels. Romans 13. So you can see that the invisible and the visible are connected. Right? Romans 13. Then every soul be subject to the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be ordained of God. Now he says in verse. We looked at this last week too. Whoever therefore resists the power, resist the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror for good works to good works, but to evil without them not be afraid of the power. Do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same.

For he is a minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. For he bears not his fault in vain. For he is a minister of God. Again, in case you thought the first one was translation error, he calls the government official a revenger to execute wrath upon him that does evil. So Paul uses the same word, the word Exousias. Replace it. The word Akon and the word Dunamis, Exousias, Akon and Dunamis. So which means that we have a natural side to the spiritual authorities, and we have a spiritual, supernatural side to the natural authorities. So we therefore have the visible and the invisible, heaven and earth, material and spiritual to the things written in Scripture.

So just like the writer of Hebrews says, Hebrews 11:3 substance of things, evidence of sins, things by faith we understand that the worlds were written, were framed by the word of God. That the things that were seen were not made of things which appear. Can we therefore, by what we are reading, say that same context is Paul in the New Testament? Huh? Okay, so we have the invisible and the visible, right? There's what men will see. There's what God saw. I'll change that phrase someday. But for now it's gonna. It's better explained because God doesn't see things. God. God is good. You know, what the devil saw, you know, which is really to describe a supernatural world to the natural world. Let's go Back to Colossians 1. So the New Testament authorities worldview, because nothing has changed.

So the supernatural world is not a culture, it's not a human. It is how God made the world. And the psalmist says he placed the earth upon the seas. And we know those seas, the seas from Genesis refers to the supernatural world. Colossians 1 again. And 16, Where Paul describes the visible and the invisible. The ones we can see by eyes and the ones we can't see. So let's pick them out properly. The word archon A ich O. We've done this before. Just to repeat, from the word A R C H E We have also arcaton. Same thing. It means somebody needs the rule of authority and power. Who has influence in the natural world is used for kings, officials, even officials of the temple priests.

Okay, remember in Acts 2, sorry, Acts 4, when Peter and John came back and told the company what they had said. And they looked at their voice in one accord and said, you made heaven and earth and said that the mouth of the holy servant David that why did the Ethan rage? And they called the chief priests the Ethan and the rulers, the kings and the rulers. They called the chief priests the rulers. So you now wonder how but the right. The psalmist in Psalm 2 was also referring to both the natural and the supernatural. So whilst in the natural they didn't look like that, like the. Even in the supernatural world, they actually represented the nations the evening. So look at this. The word exousia is a structure of orderliness, a structure of or power. Exhusia. The word dunamis is influence. Simple.