Second Timothy 3 and 15:16. Sorry. All scripture is given by inspiration of God's profitable for doctrine, reproof for correction and instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, truly furnished unto all good works. Maybe we should just look at this warning in verse two of chapter four. Just. It flows into it. Preach the word, be instant in the scenario of season, reprove, rebuke, exodus, love something and doctrine. For the time will come when you no longer endure sound doctrine. But sound doctrine means wholesome. That means something that is complete. A complete teaching of the Old Testament is sound doctrine. Complete teaching of the Old Testament. Now, you know, we say Old Testament because that's what we call it now. Okay, so the complete teaching explanation of the Old Testament is sound doctrine. I'll take that again.

The complete teaching of the Old Testament is sound doctrine. Proper explanation. Anyway, the hip hop after the hip hop teachers themselves having itching ears. And so we mustn't have itching ears. We must be wholesale in our approach to Scriptures. In the last session we talked about the codified silence where a New Testament authority is not ignoring the truth of the Old Testament or invalidating it by not talking about it. He has an assumption that he was writing to you, that he was writing to an audience. And that audience he was familiar with. And that assumption also carries with the fact that he doesn't put in a single letter all that he taught. I remember I mentioned this on Sunday. Let me just say it again. I wanted it to be out.

I don't know, I thought it was in the intro, but it didn't come out eventually. On the excerpts that they brought out, I would say that was it possible for Paul, who taught in Ephesus averagely, about three and a half years in Acts 20, 35 or 34, he said that 33, 34, 31. Sorry, 32. That he taught them for that long. And he said night and day that could it be possible that everything he said is now in six chapters? That's not possible. He taught night and day for three and a half years. And we said that if that's the average of six hours, let's even put six hours of teaching every day. Let's even say three hours every day. He taught it for three and a half years. It would take many churches 20 years to get to what he did in Ephesus.

He could have put everything in a letter. Okay, what he addressed the letter. Ephesus is a bit different. It's a bit more systematic, like Romans. But first and second corinthians definitely. He addressed issues there. You can't have everything in those letters, but the letters can point you to everything. So he said the codified silence will be not inviting the truth, but because the New Testament author expects you and I to read and understand the Old Testament. Of course, we also have a church and a pastor that can explain it to us. So we said the worldview, or let's say the context of the Old Testament or supernatural. Does the New Testament author retain it? We've been seeing that so far. Let's get Back to Colossians 1:16 quickly.

So by Paul saying this in Colossi, that all dominions visible, invisible, all principalities and powers visible, invisible. Which means we have dominions that are visible, right? That are invisible. We have principal powers that are visible, invisible. We have thrones that are visible and invisible. So there's a heaven and earth concept of to things in the earth generally. By giving us that idea, Paul points to the Old Testament author who also identifies earthly rulers with supernatural princes and influence. We'll look at this again, but we look at Daniel's approach to the present day authorities. He also had the Prince of Persia. So we had the supernatural prince of Persia. You had the ruler of Persia. So the one he dealt with in prayer and fasting was a supernatural world. Is it sustained today?

We said yes, that while we saw Cephas and the high priest and Pilate and Herod, there was a supernatural background to the activities that took place within the four Gospels. We cannot ignore that. If we do that, it's unbelief in the Scriptures to sidestep, ignore or play down on the supernatural world. Take that again, it's unbelief. You must capture everything scripture captures. Don't even give it the supernatural world context. You are not reading the scriptures properly. If all you are looking at grammar and you are not looking at the world itself. Is that world sustained by New Testament authors? We said it is. So it's not a silence, right? Rather it's an emphasis that is specific because again, his audience is known to him. There was one New Testament writer that wrote on Facebook, okay.

And I wrote to everybody that he didn't know who he was writing to. They had to this church, to that church. And usually those churches had elders and pastors who must, should definitely had taken them through the Scriptures and were well taught the doctrine of the Old Testament. I would like to read something again from Walter Mink, which is on naming the past. He says in the first century worldview That's Paul's worldview. He says nothing in heaven can happen without profound repercussions on earth. Indeed, that is the way true change on earth is brought about. Nor will the message of peace in heaven consume much good news for those seeking deliverance here on earth. No. The use of all things by Paul in Colossians 1:16 is uncompromising in his birth.

No human of cosmic power in this world or the world to come is exempted. So they knew that there was a heaven perspective. That's why I said EW. Kenyon's book what Happened from the Cross to the Throne remains a classic where he shows this is what happened in the supernatural world. We saw it. What did Paul see? I'm sorry? What did the devil see? What happened on the day of Pentecost. Which means that as we read supernatural things conveyed by. We should not be boxed into the earthly vocabulary. There is the supernatural world to words in the Bible. I said it earlier in this series that the Bible points you to the supernatural world. That is the destination of his words. It's to unlock the supernatural world for us. So we looked at the Old Testament.

We saw that at the Exodus, there was Pharaoh, there were soldiers, but there were also the gods. The gods. And that was why the plagues were like dealing decisively with the gods of Egypt. The same powers that he had. It's similar to Hebrews 2, 14. He destroyed he that had the power of death, that is the devil. So the gods had the control of those cosmic powers and those natural influences. They were defeated in it. And that is how Yahweh claimed that you guys came from me, right? Yes, you guys came from me. So Paul is saying exactly what Moses said, that it was God who divided the nations of the earth to these supernatural beings, call them sons of God, hosts of heaven. Deuteronomy 4, 18, 19, 20, Deuteronomy 32, 8, 9. You are saying the same thing.

And so Isaiah 14, you know the Luciferian concept, there is God. If he didn't, they will have a problem. In John 18. Let's review that. In John 18, Verse John 19, Thou will have no power at all against me, except if it were given thee from above. Therefore he that delivered me to thee had greater sin. So you won't have it. It was given to you in the temptation of Jesus. We saw this also earlier, but in Luke 4, Matthew 4 is also fine. But Luke 4 is really Luke 4. Okay, Matthew 4:8. He showed them all the kingdoms of the world and the glory of them. And said all these things will I give thee if you fall down and worship me. Now, what you say of the world is not. Except you look at it properly.

He's not talking about everything, particularly what he showed him of this world. Don't forget, word is what, order, arrangement. Right? So particularly what he showed him. Look, for before you start thinking that the devil owns your car, look for in verse six, the devil said to him, all this power will I give thee, and the glory of them. For that is unto me. To whom also will I give, that is, it is also given to me. At what point? That's why went into Jeremiah 32, 8, 9, and of course Genesis, chapter 11 and Jeremiah chapter 4 says, God divides nations of the earth. To the sons of God. They call them hosts of heaven. You're seeing the same thing. Deuteronomy 4, 18, 19 and 20. So the same way we had rebellion with man, we had rebellion with supernatural beings. It happened simultaneously.

But usually we focus on the man aspect. And that's why we lose sight of what happened. When Jesus rose from the dead. When he died and rose from the dead, what did he accomplish? He spoiled principalities and power, made to show them openly triumphing over them in it. And this also called the host of heaven. That's why the writer of Hebrews says when he brought the first blood in the world, he let all the supernatural beings worship him. So the Old Testament retains. I mean, had the same world, or let's say the same context as the New Testament also does. We read Psalm 82. Let's move from there. We've read Exodus. Let's see, Psalm 29. So the same way we had a nation of Israel that served God, right? We had sons of God, hosts of heaven that served God.

We also had rebellious ones. Psalm 29, Verse 1. Give unto the Lord, O ye mighty. It says, give to the Lord glory and strength. Let me read that to you from the Septuagint. The word mighty there. Septuagint. Wow, wow. I've told you it's not a perfect translation. It's just because used by Jesus is near perfect, Right? This is his bring to the Lord. He says, o sons of God. That's what the serpent says. O sons of God. All right. Psalm 29, Psalm 89, Verse six to seven. That will be 88 in the septuagints. The Bible should confess a wondrous thing. So when the Old Testament author says, the heavens declare your glory, he's not talking about the clouds, okay? The heavenly beings.

We said that before your truth in the assembly of the holy ones, or who in the clouds will be likened to the Lord, who will be likened to the Lord among the sons of God. God is glorified in the council, that's the assembly of holy ones. He said he is great and awesome upon all who are around him. O Lord God almighty powers, God of hosts, who is like you. You are strong. You are strong, O Lord. Your truth is around you. So we have those that worship God. Yep. Then look at Isaiah 24, verse 21 to 23. It shall come to pass. In that day the Lord shall punish the host of the high ones.

So, which means that in the judgment of the world, this judgment of the supernatural world to punish the host of the high ones that are on high and the kings of the earth upon the earth. Look at that combination. So you have two things. Two things were judged together. Earthly authority and supernatural authority. I'm reading this from Septuagint for you. And God will bring his hand against the order of the heavens and against the kings of the earth. Then in 22, they shall be gathered together as prisoners of garden pit and shall be shut up in the prison. And after many days they shall be visited. The moon shall be confounded, the sun ashamed. The Lord of hosts will reign in the Mount Zion and in Jerusalem before his ancients gloriously. Now it says here. And they've got a company for me.

This is chapter 23. And the bricks are met away and the world. For the Lord will reign from Zion and from Jerusalem he will be held in honor in the presence of the elders. So we have that judgment call on the supernatural world. That is, as Jesus death and resurrection was judgment of the Prince of the world. This is stated in Isaiah 24. Look at Isaiah 27, verse 1. In that day the Lord with his sword and great and strong sword will punish Leviathan, the piercing serpent, even Leviathan, the crooked serpent. He shall slay the dragon that is in the sea. This is again related to the death of Jesus and his resurrection. The sea dragon. Isaiah 34. And verse 2. For the iniquity of the Lord is upon the nations, and his fury upon all armies. He hath utterly destroyed them.

He had delivered them to the slaughter. Look at four. And all the hosts of heaven. Can you see it? Can you see it? So the armies are talking about. The host of heaven will be dissolved. And the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll. And all their hosts shall be fall down as the leaf falls off from the vine. And as a falling Fig from the fig tree. Now, usually these prophecies are about human government, tyranny, and all that tyranny. But he directs it to the host of heaven. Now, this is where people, you know, let's just go that quickly. Look at Matthew 24. 29. Immediately out of the trouble of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give a light. And the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of heaven shall be shaken.

And we said, this isaiah, Isaiah 13. This is not physical things at all. Isaiah 13, verse 10. For the stars of heaven and the constraints thereof shall not give their light. The sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause our light to shine. Supernatural. I will punish the world for their evil. Look at Ezekiel 32. 7. We'll look at some of these rapture theories too. You know, a lot of those things that we're going to. Verse 7. And then I shall put thee out and cover the heaven, and make the stars thereof dark. I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light. And the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon thy lights. This is not cosmology. Cosmology, no, this is supernatural.

Look at Joel 2:10 and 31. 2:10. The earth shall quake before them, the heavens shall tremble, the sun and the moon shall be dark, and the stars shall withdraw their shining. Now this was judgment right against the nation of Israel. But when he now promised them redemption and promised to restore them, now says in verse 20, afterward, I'll pour out of my spirit upon all flesh. Sons of daughters shall prophesy. And your old men shall dreams. Your young men shall see visions. Now quickly look at 31. The sun shall be turned into darkness, right? No. Verse 30. Sorry. I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth. Blood and fire, pillars of smoke. Is that the supernatural world Good. And the sun shall be turned into darkness, the moon to blood before the great and the terrible day of the Lord. Come.