Now, the moment you use host, Seba T S E B A that's military terms. It has ranking. It has location, military terms, ranking locations. So when the New Testament, Colossians 1:16 talks about thrones, right? Thrones and authorities. The word kourotes K U R I O T E s is someone who rules a place. Thrones rules a place. That's host of heaven. Language. Hosts of the supernatural world rules a place, thrones, dominions, exilia is the use of power or left from office. He reached for an official. An official. So 1st Corinthians 15 and verse 24. It says, the kingdom of God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule, all authority and power. Rule, authority and power. It brings them in subjection. He must wait until I put all the enemies under his feet, everything under him, rule, authority and power.

Ephesians 1:21. This is about the death of Jesus again. So how would you identify death of Jesus? You not talk about this. These are supernatural things. Far above all principalities, power, might and dominion. Ephesians 3 and 10. To the intent now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places. Ephesians 6:12. Wrestle not against flesh and blood is too clear, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. You know, when I was younger, I saw a group of them together. Hagin explained this in what's his book again, Triumphant Church. But there was a series of God that done the believer's authority, that these are groupings. So they are not the same principalities and powers are not the same rulers of the darkness of this world.

It means, therefore, that the worldview of a New Testament author retains the worldview of the Old Testament author. What has changed, guys? Is not the worldview. No, no. What has changed is not the world, sorry, is our worldview. And you know, the fact that you deny something does not mean it's not existing. In fact, the more you are denying it, the more authority it has because you are denying reality. And you know, whenever people say they know the world, the moment they see anything that looks like a manifestation, they say, this is not. And you have this. There's this strange thinking. Anything that looks weird cannot be God. And no, no, no. One guy like that. We have the discussion 2007. The guy is reformed theologian. Why do we seem to engage this once more? I'll tell you why.

I met a guy on the plane one day. I was going from one place to another, was not in Nigeria. So he saw me. I was reviewing one of our recent books. I think it's one of these are God series. So he saw it. Now, the guy, the way the guy was, he was. He had tattoo around him, he was sagging his jeans and he was looking very funny. So he now said to me, he said, do you know about this? I said, yeah. He said, maybe the wrath of God or something. So I now explained to him about the Old and New Testament and all the. So, you know, was curious. Now later I found out that he had even been to Bible schools. He was a pastor, you Know left the ministry and all that was I found out after the conversation.

So he now said these kind of things you are doing. Said unfortunately that it's those who are. We call them Calvinists and reform. They are the ones that do this kind of studies. Said unfortunately, I mean charismatics don't give a bother. I say it's not true. I am charismatic. Extremely. No, so extremely fully charismatic. And I've given my entire life to this. Oh yeah. But if we can have more people have such light, you know, and it will help, you know, the boy the guy was backsliding that was smack in the ministry from what I see and all that. But his major concern was there's not much studies. So because people are endeavored to study, they now have anti supernatural stand. It can't be God.

One even told me he said the Holy Ghost cannot be in charge of something that he was talking about rejoicing. He said, when you are losing your mind, say look at me. Do I look at someone that lost his mind before? So I'm talking about you. Say no, don't patronize me. I'm one talking. I said, my lifestyle is in rejoicing. I said, you laugh every day. Has anybody accused you of losing your mind? So it's in church that mind is lost. Say no, just this weird thing. People are rolling on the floor. I say, is it your body? You're very crazy. So there was one person like that. Just put it on. Say the power of God is not when you are running on the floor in prayer. He said it is. It is. You are wrongly taught.

I just went on the person's wall. I said, I rolled on the floor last week, you know, and those kind of things are so stupid. I had to correct somebody when he was trying to say something. He said, he said the power of God is in the world. He said it's not on a man falling down. I said, come, if you keep talking like that, you and the power of God, you say bye to yourselves. You can correct an excess. But you see, I usually frown at those who correct an excess or something they've never experienced. You don't even know what you are saying is excessive. How do you know something is excessive that you have not even practiced? You want to. I mean a guy went on and now was explaining tongues. I asked him a question, do you speak with tongues?

He said no, said bye. He said, he said the tongues that people are speaking today. He said it's not the original one. I said, have you heard the original one before? He said no. Said, the original one is not. This is all this gibberish you're just saying. I said, agreed. The original one you are talking about, have you heard it before? He said no. Who do not help? Is there nobody? So you're just funny like all the time. They explained to me that healing is just a feeling that God has stopped healing the sick that gave. I said, they talking to somebody who has been healed. I said, go and tell who. I've never been healed. They will believe you me, I've been healed. You don't think I know what happened to, you know, very stupid.

But the point is this, you know, I mean, it's important that we do not fall in that trap. Now people are talking about excess and I really don't think it's an excuse. Excess can lead you to disobedience. The truth is the New Testament author retains that world. It's still the New Testament world. Now the question is it our worldview? 2:10 Colossians 1:16 will be there. Colossians 2:10 is the head of all principality and power. Ark is the head of all principality and power. The same phrase. So where this coming from the old Testament, Deuteronomy 32 and verse 8 and 9, When the most high, the buyer to the nations, the inheritance. They have a very strong argument against this. I'll present it sometime here. It doesn't. I'm not seeing an agreement with it. I don't. But it's a good argument to read, understand.

One professor sent it to me and we argued about it for a while last year. So I guess it is something you need to know. And then when he separated the sons of Adam, he said, the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. The lost portion is his people, Jacob's daughter of inheritance. So we said there was a time that the nations which has to do with territories were given over to supernatural beings. Does the New Testament identify with it? Yes, it does, by using principalities. Principalities is cosmic, is geographical powers, thrones. So New Testament identifies with an unseen hand in the nations. The New Testament identifies with such. So when I go to preach now, I'm not asking you to say I you who is the principality here.

When I go to preach the gospel, I must know. Paul says, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. That's why I'm of the firm opinion that test of the local power is in destruction. This is where it is that the nations of the world were divided to professor and power. That's why I say they were created by him and for him. The New Testament author retains that worldview. Do we retain that worldview today? If we don't, that means our worldview is not biblical. If our worldview is not supernatural, there is not biblical. Now would fall into the error of being superstitious. Right? But our worldview must be biblical. So we have principalities, power. Look at how Paul describes the death of Jesus. Let's go back to Ephesians 1 in the resurrection of Jesus.

Now notice what is all this 4 in 19, the exceeding greatness. Now all the words in 19 are comparative. Exceeding greatness. Why would you use super balloon? That means you are making a comparison. Ephesians 1:19. Exceeding greatness of his power towards one who believe according to the working of his mighty power which he wrote in Christ. Now notice that it is eight comparison. You cannot. He's not talking about the exceeding greatness of his power in comparison to Herod and Pilate. No, no, no. It tells you the exceeding greatness comparison in 20 raise him from the dead, set him at his own right hand in the heaven. That means the powers we are referring to are heavenly in nature. Then he says in 21 far above, because it's heavenly.

Principalities and power might dominion every name that is named, not only in this world, but in that which is to come. Now we know that is what God is building. The end of the world. He had put all things under his feet and gave the end of all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. So if you teach redemption the work of Christ and you don't identify this, it's handmade. Something happened in the three days and it was in the heavens. Something happened that was in the heavenlies. I'm going to show you on Friday that in the incarnation for the host of heaven to show up and you saw light the stars, something also happened in the heavenlies. And whatever happened in the heavenly two years, the host of darkness were not aware.

So which means that you know, just like we said, there are heights in the supernatural world, you must know it. And we said, if everything is supernatural, why are not even applying the basic natural skills? Say you are becoming superstitious. I'd rather be superstitious than be an idiot and not know that this world is largely supernatural. We also have the word demons. Now, demons is a bit of a problem because I mentioned this earlier in the series. It's not a direct translation. It's a translation, which means that the translation you will need to go through different video is not direct translation from the Old Testament. The word demons usually is within what is usually called the second Temple period, just before Jesus came, where new technologies came and all that. But we'll talk about that later.

So that's it's not a translation but a transliteration. You have demons words like diamon, D a I M o n or D a I M o N I O n. Now again, a diamond is a divine being. It can be good and evil, interestingly, but this person uses it majorly for evening spiritual entities. Now it's a pre modern times explanation of foreign gods, supernatural beings that are foreign to Israel. Isaiah 65:11. You are they that forsake the Lord, that forget my holy mountain. Holy mountain is temple. And prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number. Psalm 90. Troop that number. Let me read a bit of the Septuagint for you. Septuagint? Look at the September me and you will forget my holy mountain and prepare a table for a demon. So the word truth there is demon.