So it's not about the food. Is that clear? Colossians 3. And 17. Whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and Father by him. So is the New Testament as supernatural in its context like the old? That's a question we have asked again. Now the challenge with that is that the New Testament is more modern. Modernity is science really where mankind has explored nature, natural knowledge, synthesis between knowledge application, discoveries, innovation. You know, that's science really. You explore, you know, how far can we go here? I mean, if you had told somebody in the days of Noah, maybe Paul, and say, I want to get to. I want to get Rome. Yeah, I'm going to catch a flight. By 4:00'. Clock.

Paula looked at you and said, okay, how, I mean, is it my chariots? He said, no, you say here, Peace, said the peace of God. Apostles understand there was nothing like that in their heads. You know, things have been explored. A lot of things have been explored. Now you can have air inside your house. I say air conditioner and it's serious. And you look at this one. You can have a, I mean a car. These have chariots and it's more small. No, no, this one, you can do this one. That's exploring nature. So it's in the modern world and it's of God, because he has created all things are for his pleasure. But look at this. Where the challenge is where we create, I'll use that word, a conflict. Where does the conflict come from?

We're getting the very borderline of the core of this series. Where the conflict comes is, so why do we create a conflict? No, that's what I was saying. Okay, we usually create a conflict. That's the word. And the first thing is we dichotomize, we separate. This is the natural, this is the supernatural. Yet scripture is very clear that what is natural is founded upon the supernatural. This is just nature and all that. So we now create a conflict, a real conflict. And that's where the issues are, because we are in a modern world. Imagine you want to know something and yes, you search Google, you should search Google, you know, for natural things. But you want to take a decision for your life and you say, okay, maybe you want to marry somebody and say, what are Egbert boys like?

In 1946 they had the Highest number of. I was not saying anything. Now what you have done, you are creating a conflict because you. That. That's horrible. What you have done is nonsense. Okay? Yeah. You are sick in the body. Just go to the doctor. Let them tell you. Okay. That begins to search. Possible cases headache at 2pm it's likely that the head will cut off by 4. Hey. This is what you have done. You have not searched. I am the God, Lord that healed thee. You're just looking at sickness as a natural thing. And if it's a natural thing strictly, then why do we have gifts of healings? So you have created a conflict where it ought not to have existed. And that's what we seek to unbundle in this series. So how is. How supernatural is the context of New Testament?

We've done it already. We've said this before, that the fact that he takes his doctrine from the Old Testament shows you that the context will remain the same, not the cultural context. Because culture today, our culture today does not identify the supernatural world at all. It doesn't see in the ancient Israelites and the Canaanites the way you make your hair. That's why you see, they gave them instruction as touching a beard. Gang. Your hair. The way you do your hair. No, you can't cut it like this. Like. See the way we oppress guys in those days, by the time we got the hold of those things and say no. Even the way you shaped your hair. I'll show you scripture. See, you're not supposed to shape your hair. You must not wear cotton polyester. The guy was looking at it. They say,

I said, so choose one. Is it the transfers one you are going for or this one even up your house? You must not be the hound. That is what. And it has. I mean, I mean, he has a deal of quantity in the Bible because there's something it represents in their world. So you're going to taunt people and begin to. But the point is science has taken us off the that cultural context that interprets the supernatural world. Fine. We might not be able any longer to interpret culture, but it doesn't change the fact that the world is supernatural. Every honest scientist will tell you that they always meet a brick wall. The limit how much you can only innovate from what you can know. And the senses have its limits. Ew. Ken is the healing man of the heart.

He says, I should have discovered there's something that is beyond science. That man is the hidden man of the heart. There is A man that you cannot get in any device. You can't. There's no device, there's no technological. He can't show you those things. So how supernatural? The question is, how supernatural is the New Testament and its context? I'll repeat it again. It retains not the cultural context of the Old Testament, but the supernatural context of it is the same. Now why now? Let's say a few things. Now, how come I will go back to what I said earlier. We don't see that supernatural world of the Old Testament. You would not say you don't see it in the New because you saw people walk on water in the New Testament. Right? Right. We saw a man move from one spot to the other.

A Philip, for example, is a bit arguable. We saw different scenarios coming of the storm. We saw that in the New Testament world. We saw the glory of God in the day of Pentecost, for example. We saw God speak to multiple people in John 12 and they thought it was angel, thought it was thunder. So we still see that in that world. World. So that shows you that what we have is a knowledge problem. There is an emphasis, an interpretation that has robbed us of the world of the Bible. It's like, okay, let me give you an instance. What, what do we call revivals in what we call the voice of healing revival? Some people just came up because it started from the William J. Seymour, before then Charles Panham, the Holiness brethren.

They got a hold of speaking in tongues and from there they just come around, speak in tongues. So I have some words of knowledge. Then they moved a bit. If I said that people like Charles Podjan, even Calvin, who were not pro charismatic gifts, there are times that in their meeting just brought out and mentioned someone's name because so it was still happening. So the voice of human revival came. Somebody just got a hold of God can heal your body. Something that is already in the world. Now what took it away is either a de emphasis or cynicism or just being critical. I'll say to us now by my own study, and I'm still making more researches, but the concept of disregarding the Old Testament has done away with, has affected our knowledge of the supernatural world.

In fact, you hear people say, is the word the written word? What is the written word? They will now say the written word is the epistles. The way now said the epistles is pointed to, not testimony. Said, no, no. It's pointing to. It has finished. You can't be reprobating and prohibiting at the same Time the written word no more. What's the written word? The epistles, you know. Yes, but the epistles point. In fact Paul in 1 Corinthians 10, he said all the events of the Exodus were spiritual by this, by the Holy Ghost. So when he was using pneumaticos, he was using Exodus as the background. Hey, no, no, no. That is an example onto us. How can somebody be an example to us if we are not going to walk in that experience? No, no, no, no.

Then it says gifts of the spirit. Yes, those ones, you know, there's just confusion. So does the New Testament retain the context? It does. Let's look at how the New Testament identifies now. I'll talk about this later on. How does he identify with the Old Testament in the structure of the supernatural worlds? Look at Colossians 1, For example, I mentioned this, the fact that the death of Jesus was reduced to just dying on the cross and wait, you know, and this is. No, When I mentioned that he went to hell. Some people the way they will get up, relax. So when I asked one guy that was in 2011 was BlackBerry, I remember very well. The guy said, I said, what do you have against Jesus going to hell? He said that word of faith nonsense. Relax.

I said, is there anything supernatural about the death of Jesus? He said, the only spiritual thing about it is that wait for this. He said, his death stands before God as spiritual. I said, hagos speed. I said, we're in trouble. He said, that's what I'm saying. That is taking us. Hey. I said, we are back to Psalm 28, verse 2. He said, no, no. I said, okay. I said, so the contact Jesus had with the enemy. He said no, it was not the fact that they hated him and all that. I said so what happened in three days? He said, so that the full elements of justice will be meted as said by who? Said by God. I said, where? He said, no, he's agreed. Set up car. He said no. He just got angry.

He said, I. I will never associate with you again. I said, I'm asking. He said, no, no, this is nonsense that you are preaching Jesus because the devil. I said, relax. I'm just saying, is it a sepulcher? Let's be clear, Arimathea. So God stood there and. I said but Colossians 2, 15 Ephesians 1, far above it was clear all principalities, power, might and dominion. How can you say those far above Herod? How ordering some guy from home Would deal with error. Now you don't need anything. Super deal with Herod. Herod. Simple war. In fact, poor coup will take away Herod. He said, no, no. All I just know is that demonic thing people will teach that Jesus went to hell. I said, no, let's forget hell. He went to the place of the dead. He said, yes, the place of the dead.

I agree with that one. For three days. I said, was he the only one there? I mean, they just created him. He just did a bungalow for you for. So when he comes, this was Jesus. When he comes. You know, you know, sometimes you know, when you are not brother, when you are not up against something, when you're up, you are down in against it. Cool down, cool down. Look at Colossians 1. For by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible. Thrones, dominions, principalities, powers. He talks about invisible thrones, dominions, principalities, powers. All things were created by him and for him. Now, by saying this, the New Testament purpose identifies with an hierarchy in the supernatural world geography. So which means that using geographical terms, territorial terms, there is a supernatural cosmic geography in scripture.

You have to identify with it. The New Testament identifies with it. Principalities, powers. Why would Jesus say, all authority is given me in heaven and on earth. So this language is definitely Old Testament language. Job 32, That's the Elohim concept, the plurality of God's supernatural beings with an hierarchy. That's an Genesis 1:15, 16. To rule in the day, to rule in seasons and times. 2032. And verse 17, he says the sacrifice unto devils was shedding, actually is better entities. Shedims S H E D I M. Let me read the Septuagint of that for you. Now this says the sacrifice to demons, which I disagree with a bit because the word shatib there deals more with a powerful authority in a certain area. Zerubbabel chapter 4 gives an idea of that. In verse 19, the host of heaven.