Job 9:7, Job 9:7, Verse six, which shaketh the earth out of our place, and the pillars there tremble, which commands the sun and his wise not and seals up the stars, which alone spreads out the heavens and treads upon the waves of the sea. These are narratives of the supernatural world. They are not discussing science in these conversations at all. So our information about the new Testament. You see, you need to read the Old Testament to understand the import of this word. Let's turn back again to Psalm 8. Psalm 8. O Lord our God, how excellent is your name. We'll talk about the name shortly. In all the earth who accept thy glory above the heavens, out of the mouth of waves and sucklings, thou ordain strength. Because of thine enemies, thou mayest stand still, the enemy and the avenger.

When I consider the heavens, the work of your hands, the moon and stars which you have ordained, what is man now? The moon and stars is the host of heaven. What is man that you are mindful of him, not the Son of Man, that you visit him. You made him a little lower than the Elohim. So what we have been describing earlier are the Elohim, spiritual beings, spirit beings, hosts of heaven. So we shouldn't. Now, why this should not be a surprise or something that is a bit astonishing because we've said to them, I said this, that we must ask, what is the nature of the earth? What's the identity? The earth is his rest place.

So if the earth is his restless and his throne, which we call the host of heaven, will be in his rest place, then it is not out of place for us to think supernaturally what we think about the earth. The earth is God's rest place, and his rest place is heaven and earth, or heaven on earth. So our thinking of the earth cannot be purely natural. Then we have all men. Ridiculous. So yesterday, looking at the toy chair. Let's just revisit some things we saw. Galatians 4. Galatians 4. Paul says in verse 3, when were children were in bondage unto the spiritual elements of the world. Does that make sense? Spiritual rulers of the world. Spiritual rulers of the world. The story chair.

Then in verse eight, how when you did not know God, you did service to them, which are by nature and know God. Then he says, but now, after you have known God, or rather known of God, how turn you against the weak and beggarly spiritual elements, elemental spirits of the world? When we desire again to be in bondage, notice this. Now it says, you observe days, months, times and years. Those are seasons, right? Colossians 2, Verse 8. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. After the treasures of men. That the moment that he mentioned man, we quickly switch off and think he's just talking, just mere knowledge. No, after treasures of men. After the rudiments. So chair, or the mental spirits, rulers of the world. Not after Christ. Rulers of the World.

So rulers of the world is not talking about your local government chairman. That's the wrong thinking because the local government chairman can even be a Christian. You know, I mean, many are Christians. Colossians 2:20. Before we get to that 2:20, we read 2:15. Having spoiled principality and powers, he made a shoe of them, openly triumphing over them in it. Now, is this an earthly reality or an heavenly reality? Or both? It has to be both, because in showing that triumph, he does it through the church. Okay, we've done, I mean we have studies on this already. Let no man therefore judge you in meat or in drink, or in respect of an holy day, or new moon or Sabbath, which are shadow of things to come by the bodies of christ. Look at 18.

Let no man beguile you of your reward in voluntary humility and worshipping of angels. Now let's key that we said we should change angels to what host of heaven, intruding into those things which he has not seen daily popped up by his own mind. So these are the unseen things, the unseen world, the unseen realm. Hebrews 11. Three things that were made were not made, or things which do appear. Verse 19. Not holding the head from that which of the body and joints man, being nourished, having nourishment, ministered and knit together, increase with the increase of God. Look at 20. Then he says, wherefore if you be dead with Christ? From the rudiments, we suggested the elemental spirit, ruling spirits of the world. Why are you living in the world? Are you subject to ordinances? The ruling spirit of the world.

Now in First Corinthians, chapter two. So there's a connection between philosophy, human wisdom. There's a connection between. Now where is that connection? That connection? How do I know? Now Moses says in Deuteronomy 13, if any dreamer, okay, say something that comes to pass. Now, like I said, we're going to come home with it at some point and say a prophet or a dream. You just think he's talking about somebody wearing white garments, somebody appearing on tv. No, he says if he shows you a sign and it comes to pass. For example, maybe some folks predicted and said things about, you know, maybe the COVID and said this will happen. And there's a way that when those things happen and they are precise, maybe they predicted something. I'm talking about science. And we seem to follow them very easily and then begin to believe that.

I mean they predicted. I remember somebody said this to me. That was. We're having a meeting in London, so we're trying to do something together. Some guys from America, Asia, Nigeria. So that was 2015. So this 15 or 14 I think was. So the guy just said this guy in fact my like an elder brother kind of person and you know, was a senior business partner. So he told me that the guy was gay right there. And he introduced me to the guy as a pastor. We're having breakfast. So the guy sat there and he told me, he said in fact his name maybe still was Paul. So, so he said that about 32 stories. There was one that happened when I was in Singapore, went for this cool oil marketing conference. So I went for marketing conference. So this guy stood up then.

Oil, Oil was. I think it was, yeah, at last time 2008 I think it was about 130 or 140. The man just said it was in the glass. And the man said by August into September he said crude oil will go to $30. I just said what did he drink? Maybe he was drunk. And exactly what he said came to pass. So when I sat with this other guy in London and the guy said to me, he said there I think naira was 120. He said that naira is going to go to about 300, 400. I started laughing. I said oh, it doesn't look like it's only 10 naira, 5 naira. He said by this year and this year.

So while I was thinking then he said Nigeria is going to enter recession between 2015, 2016, I mean then said to me funny enough that other guy is a Muslim married to a Christian. So he goes to church and mosque. He said that. Anyway, I still told him last week. He said, he said that, you know, that God will understand him, that he believes in Jesus. He believes. So I said if these guys, this is how he told me say these guys were around in the days of Joseph, right? He said God will use a dream to tell Pharaoh. He said we just tell him to go and talk to him. He said do you understand how things work in this world now imagine those things now coming to pass. And unfortunately some men of God are now from signed by election.

It now didn't come to pass, you know. And you now look at these guys and look at them and say they must know something. You think that what they are doing is just natural. It's not. It's not. Moses was saying and the thing will come to pass. He said then he now says let us go and worship other gods. Pay attention to the conclusion. Usually we get carried away and that can also happen to you in a church setting. Are you here? Pay attention to the conclusion. That's what Colossians are saying. He said, no, this is where we are going in this series. But I'll just give you a snippet when you guys say, now let's follow this. Every philosophy has its conclusion. That's where it's taking you to.

Like I've said to people, I said, if you just study the patterns of civil unrest and all of that. Usually civil unrest is a pattern. People will fight for their rights. And they'll say, in fact, let me show you another one. Many times, most dictators in Africa, who eventually became dictators, not just Africa, Europe, that became dictators and tyrants. They started out as human rights activists. They want to fight for their people. They want to liberate their people. They want to do this one, they want to do this one. They want to that at the end of. Even when you look at the west in between the we want freedom for everybody, they will just drop accept this one. There's something at the back of it. The development comes with worship or something. It's a philosophy, a thinking.

Then you look at that philosophy and what does he hold? Christ. Does it lead me to the worship of God? Are you following what I'm saying this morning? So you see the gyrants, they will say, we are coming to fight for you with this one. At the end of the day, they become exactly what you they said you were fighting against. That's what happens. I mean, look at. Even in this country, every. If you go and read every coup speech I, I used to study them. The first thing everybody says is corruption. It's like they just edit your own. So the last person will accuse the last person. Till you get to that point. What's going on here? The philosophy is being pushed. So at the end of the day, you notice that I said the unrest is a pattern. It increases ungodliness.

In fact, atheism increases as people just say no, they're fighting for this one. And usually, and unfortunately, like some. Somebody who told me, he said he noticed that some of these bad tendencies that people are fighting for in human rights activism and stuff like that are promoted by even the churches. A wrong teaching, twisting of scripture, pushing out slavery, pushing out gender discrimination. This is not biblical, but it comes out. People now fight against it. And then, you know, forget God, you know about God, you know, so you know, and then the unrest comes. So where is this conclusion? Where is it going to at the end of the day. So when Paul says that these things do not hold to Christ, it doesn't point to him. Then you sit back and say, where am I going to hell?

Somebody was telling me he was going to the entertainment industry was years ago. He said, pastor, I said, I would definitely encourage you. And it was music. I said, but if you can just wait a few years and be a strong believer so that you can negotiate, handle the things of this world with a deep understanding of what this world is about, spiritually speaking. I said, you can give yourself time so that you are a strong. Because you see you will just be carried. And the wave of this world doesn't have a limit. You even know why you're not start thinking the way they think. I know. I said, maybe give you some time and be well entrenched. I was telling some of the. Some of these guys who are into politics. I said, look, you know, it's not church. I said, yes.

So because it's not church, make sure that you are like my friend. You said that. He said, make sure that your believer believes very well so that you are not the one demons are casting out. That's how I said it. So. So the signs are following you. You have to believing, but very believing because you are in this world and you must know what you know true about matters that we are seated on high. We are in God's garden. And that must. That's why our identity must be very clear to us when Paul is warning them. Hope you're learning something. So your thinking of this world cannot be just natural. Colossians 2, we read that earlier. 20. Let's see. Second Peter 3, verse 10. Day of the Lord come as a table night.

The heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with favorite heat. We read that in the Old Testament, right? So the structure you see the sun, moon and stars of the earth. Well, well. Shall not be fervent heat. The earth also, and the works that are there, and shall be burned up. Then it says in verse 12, looking for and hastening to come to the day of God, where the heavens being on fire, will be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The elements shall melt with fervent heat. So which means that he situates First Corinthians 2. I don't know why I skipped that. First Corinthians 2.

Remember when Jesus, when they came to Jesus and to arrest him in Luke 22, he said to them in 53, he said, I was with you Daily in the temple you stretch forth no hands against me. Luke 22:53 but this is your hour and the power of darkness. This is your hour and the power of darkness. First Corinthians 2. And verse eight. Okay, I'll start from six. How big we speak wisdom among them that are perfect. Yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world that come to nothing. Rulers are con. Rulers of this world. Is that Old Testament language or someone as that. Okay, host of heaven. Rulers to rule the night and day. Rulers of this world that come to nothing. Then it says, we speak the wisdom of God in the mystery, even the hidden wisdom.