It can be military, political, social. Remember, let's backtrack a bit. We said anytime people are unified in culture, in thinking, remember that supernatural being is involved. You will always see, will show itself in a social disposition, cultural disposition, theological disposition to religion. For example, the third word Paul uses, Worthronos. We've been here before. A throne Thronos T H R O N O S is a symbol of structural authority, which is a symbol or it speaks of an institution. Somewhere already there is a institution that has been set down thrones. But it says the word dominion. Paul Dominion is the word kuritios, which is kuriotis K U R I O T S which means the spare, let's say where the authority is used. Now, all of these things have both a natural invisible and invisible manifestation.

The easier ones to point out, which we are probably going to look at in a moment, will be natural authority. Right? It's easy. But beyond that, we said anything that will societal influence, religious influence. All right, Cultural influence. Right. Has an invisible structure to it. And that must be clear. I would say one of the things I'll look at that in Genesis 11, that when people are unified under any guise, just know that worship is intended. Worship is not when you bow down. Worship is when you submit to something. Not when you bow down. It's not. You can, you can even bow down to destroy someone. So that's not it. Worship is when you submit to something. So things that are being submitted to. That's why I said years back that we must find out what are today's idols.

We probably are carried away by thinking idols are no longer in the cities because we've left our villages many years ago. No, is what is being submitted today was when I was doing a study on human rights because it's my. When it's a lawyer, that's my. That's really my area. I like. And I did some research. I said, this is worship. I said, what do you want? And sometimes I bother what is your truth? Your truth. Guy said, own your truth. Own your truth. There's another one. He say, self love. You see, believer say self love. Someone wrote one scripture. He said, love your neighbor as yourself. Said, you don't love your neighbor. Don't love your neighbor. I said, come here. Why conk your head? And you call him rabbi? Rabbi all over the place. Go to the text now.

I want to be texting. I said, what is it there? He said, oh. I said, what? Read it now. He said, you must not take vengeance because you were also slaves. He said, why not read the context? This ain't self love. He said of God. Jesus said that? No, Jesus said that, love your neighbor as I've loved. As I've loved. As I've loved you. But that's a higher law. I said, he's saying the same thing. You think Jesus came to upgrade it and say, add this one? No, let's Be careful because those things have a will. And you know something about those things, they will resonate with you. Like new normal. New normal. The new normal. We don't have to gather in a place. And you now look for scripture. God is everywhere.

Jesus told that woman that you don't have to worship in any mountain. Does your church look like mountains? Something that you could just sit down. And people assume that some of us who don't sleep overnight to read the Bible, that is because we are daft. Don't just wake up and get Rema. We don't think. We're researching, we're checking. Even materials that were existing before Nigeria was imagined. They're checking. That's it. That's it. Someone said it was Paul that created the concept of church. Yes. Says because they were in persecution. I said, where did you get that from? He picked it from somewhere. He doesn't know where the person got his own from. You know, the invisible and invisible. Everybody does not know what's pushing them. Well, right now, somebody called me. I said, that thing was really, how didn't you get moved?

But I said, look, me, I know that the Bible and social media can be friends and they can be enemies. Okay? You decide to choose where you want to stay. You, all of you just fell into it. And you know, they were not under pressure. I mean, I can tell, like Jesus, what you are doing is not good. You just sit down somewhere in an air conditioner. I will say bless you. First Corinthians 2. I'm not talking to anybody in particular. Now notice verse eight again, Paul says, at the prince of this world known, verse 8, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Interesting. Were earthly rulers involved in a Christology? Of course they were. Because if you look at the book of Acts 2:23, he said, you have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain.

So Peter talks about wicked hands. Acts 2:23, Acts 3:17. Through ignorance you did it as also your own Ruler. Acts 2:3 17. Acts 4:27. Elo. Pontius Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together. That's referring to the four Gospels. Acts 4:27, Acts 5, Verse 30. The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom you slew and hanged on a tree. Acts 7:52. Just one of whom you have been now the betrayers and murderers. So there was that human account that you guys were involved. Acts 10, Verse 39, whom they slew and hung on a tree. Acts 13, Verse 28. And though they found no cause of death believe yet they desired the Pilate that should be slain. So you can see the human hangul. Well written. Now why is the book of Acts like that?

Saints community do not forget Acts of the Apostles is the book of Luke Part 2. Are you following? So it's the same audience Theophilus. And it will be funny if we are now talking to Theophilus about the prince of this world. Looking at you. Is that me? This is basically the eyewitness account. But in the speech or the words, right. Of the authors or the speakers or anyway those who spoke, you will see that context there. So they say who cruise right? Jesus. The Jews. No, don't say the Jews. I take that back. Certain Jews. That is quite anti Semitic. Certain Jews. The Jews, Israel, not Israel. Who wrote the epistles? Are they not Jews? Who are the person who took the gospels are not Jews. So it would be very funny to say the Jews did this.

And that has led to a lot of unnecessary wars. I know the fact there was somebody who said was going to sue Israel for killing. Jesus says going to court, you know, that's the visible part of the invisible. Like I said. Now there's nowhere now as we know that rulers and conspiracies as well rulers were used for ethnic authorities. But you cannot call them rulers of the age by using rulers of this world. The New Testament writer is pointing to the invisible part of those activities. That's why that Luke 22:53 comes to mind. This is your. This is your hour and the power of darkness. So you can't you when he says at the fruit of this world they will not acquire law of glory. Is he talking about the earthly rulers? No, he's talking about the supernatural world.

But the manifestation is with the earthly rulers. That's why Jesus had princes, all right. Rulers of the temple, rulers of the government. But he was talking about the ruler of this age. That is behind the activities. There was an accord of these activities. Now let's. Before we get to the Old Testament, we are going to Old Testament. But look at Isaiah 14. Before we go to the Old Testament, let me show you something very quickly. In Isaiah 14, if you start reading, you know, Isaiah was talking about earthly king. That is very easy to see. And this usually becomes a problem. Those who interpret scriptures and ignore the supernatural world context will always falter here. The truth is there was a government, right, that he was talking about. Then he says in verse 12, how are they falling from heaven?

Look at the context now. Heaven Is supernatural. O Lucifer, son of the morning, how thou come down to the ground and did weaken the nations. For thou art said in thy heart. I will ascend to heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of conversion in the sight of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the cloud. I will be like the Most High. Most High. Is that. You know that most high language? Aha, good. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell to the sides of the peak. They that see thee shall now look upon thee and consider. Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms?

The man that made the world as a wilderness and destroyed the cities thereof, that opened up the house of his providence? All the kingdom, nations, even of them lie in glory. Then he's talking about a man. But he's not talking about supernatural world. The same way that if you say it's Pilate and Cephas, you are right, but there is the invisible world. So when he got to that place, I said, upon this rock I'll build my church. And it was referring to the supernatural world. That's the context, that's the main context of his death, burial and resurrection. That's why there's a huge debate the church world. What happened in the three days, it's unimaginable.

But what I laugh at is that if Jesus could leave himself to the hands of natural rulers to kill him, what is now the sheer, I don't know, anxiety that supernatural forces had the same right. The moment he did that to Caiphas and to Pilate, he surrendered himself also paths. Same thing. Because that is the only way you can explain what happened when he died. Where did he go to? It was just somewhere. Someone said he's in grave. Which grave? You mean he was right in the cemetery? No, he left, but somehow. Where? Someone said he went to the Father for some time. For what? You know, he Just because they want to deny that there were spiritual forces at work. Calm down. That is why we. We are just being arrogant one and we're just being stupid.

You know, arrogance and stupidity in the same sentence. Heavy to deny what is very obvious. First Corinthians 15. Can we call Pilate the ruler of this age? No capers, no right. But were there earthly thrones? Yes, but there was an invisible throne. Are you here first Corinthians 15 and 24, 25, 26. He says he must wait till the enemies. Now look at. He said he put down all authority and Power then now said, the last enemy is death. For he had put all things under his 327. So if he has included death in the things that he took care of, Those are Hebrews 2:14 and 15, then there is more to the death of Jesus than what the eyes could see. Look at the word destroy. The word destroy. There is the word Cartageo K A T A R G. We've done this before.

It doesn't mean to make. To exist, not exist, need to neutralize. To neutralize. First Corinthians 1:28, the same book. To bring to nothing the things that are to bring to nothing. It means to efficient. 2:15, 2 Means to annul the effect. Romans 4:14, Carthage. So it means, for example, to upstage. Not to mean to cease to exist, to neutralize, to disempower. Romans 8. So that you will know again where the area and personnel death in your life. Nor angels, principalities, powers, things, present, things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any creature. So he's talking about creatures that are able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus, our Lord. Again, the word archon and dunamis are repeated here. So we therefore are dealing with a hostile supernatural world, even in the Christian experience.

So whilst we have the manifestation of earthly authorities and earthly beings the same way he says that those who are in disobedience are ruled by the prince of power of the air. Ephesians 2:1:2. You say which one? No, this guy is a nice guy. He said no. There's the invisible part of what he's doing. And the believer must come to that. You can't disbelieve what is true. That's denial. So there's a supernatural world to what we see. Particularly we have said, where it unites people in culture, in disobedience, in philosophy, then there must be an invisible part. Because what invisible beings do, rebellious, invisible, they look for worship. And worship is not singing, it's submission. Submission to a thinking. It can also be disguised as Bible study, right, Bible study, like one guy was doing.