We're there because we are in Christ and we're in his temple. But we're not there yet because the destination is the whole earth. So we are there, we're not there yet. We are in the kingdom yet. We're looking forward to the kingdom. We have eternal life, yet we're looking forward to eternal life. Now we say we're looking forward to eternal life. We're looking forward to the earth becoming what it was made for. That's basically what it is. So Eden is the final. Eden is the final destination of the earth. Therefore our view of the earth space must be primarily supernatural. We therefore have a natural earth that is built upon the supernatural world. Just for repeat, I'm repeating that over and over again.

So last time out, we looked at the language of Paul and how he uses the host of heaven narrative to speak about principalities, power, might and dominion. I've not touched it yet. Just scratching the surface, because we're going to look at it in better detail. So we either see the earth as purely natural or the Earth as natural and supernatural. Which is the right description, really. I'm saying the identity of this earth that we're in is that it's founded upon the supernatural world. That must be the way we see it. Anything otherwise, you know, we miss it. So Eden is the final destination and we have the host of heaven. Host of heaven have both negative and positive connotation. I read a bit of that. Let's go through them again.

In Colossians chapter 1 and 16, Paul says in verse 16, by him were all things created that are in heaven and are in the earth, visible and invisible, thrones, dominions, principles and powers. Things that were created by him and for him. And in Colossians 2:15, it says, in the death of Jesus, he spoiled principalities and power. This is host of heaven, its four principalities and power, and made a show of them, hopefully triumphing over them in it. We're coming back to this later on in Ephesians and chapter one, Paul, writing about the death of Jesus didn't just talk about someone going to the cross and that was it. He says, Verse 20, far above 21, far above. All principalities and power and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but in that which is to come.

So that you will know what happened to the believer. He says, you are raised up together, Verse six, to sit together in the heavenlies in Christ Jesus. So a salvation theology that does not deal with the supernatural world is very incomplete. In chapter three and ten he says to us again that to the intent that now onto the principles of powers in the heavenly places or heavenlies might be made known by the church the manifold wisdom of God, ignore the fact that. No, not ignore. Take note of the fact that the use of angels by Peter in 1st Peter 1 and 12, and it says the angels decided to look into it, is a bit too modern. It should be host of heaven. Today, if I will use the word angels in a proper biblical term, I rather use host of heavenly beings.

When Paul in First Corinthians 6, 2 and 3 says, we'll judge the angels, how do I say will judge the host of heaven? That's a better language. Will judge the host of heaven. So when you see Hebrews 1 angels, there are also hosts of heaven. Host of heaven narrative. One of the beings in the host of heaven is that nakash, that divining being in Genesis 3, verse 1, through to Genesis 15 and 16. So when Peter is going to read about Peter, when Peter speaks about the angels desire to look into one Peter 1:12 is host of heaven. So there are hosts of heaven, supernatural beings in whom involved in the redemptive work of Jesus. So In Ephesians chapter 6, Paul now says, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against.

Of course, he says, we strong the Lord, the power of his might put on the whole arm of God that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, and against the rulers of the darkness of this world. Now notice this. Against spiritual wickedness in the high host of heaven. Take unto you the old hammer of God. So the host of heaven. So whenever we say Jesus is raised up, you are not going to see him above a building. It's a host of heaven narrative, which means a man, a human being, now sits above the host of heaven. In John 1:51, Jesus said, you see that in the resurrection angels will ascend and descend, which is same stuff as Genesis 28, 12, 13. That's what Jacob saw.

So the narrative of the redemptive work of Jesus will be incomplete or incoherent until we see what happened in the background. EW Kenyon, in his book what Happened from the Cross to the Throne, showed us what happened on the cross, what did Satan see? Because there's what Satan saw, there's what those around saw. What those around saw wasn't what was going on. What happened in the three days and three nights? What did Satan see? What did he see in the resurrection? And he ended up. Is the part I've not taught yet as I want to. Then he said, what did God see? Of course, he said also, what did the devil see on the day of Pentecost? Something happened in the supernatural world. There's a heaven narrative to all the stories of the four Gospels.

I'll say that again because Jesus talked about the kingdom of heaven right from the incarnation. We saw the host of heaven involved in Jesus being born. Luke chapter two. So there's a heaven side to the earthly world. I'll take that again. There's a heaven side to earthly narrative. And our interpretation becomes incorrect if we don't see that side. So we began to see how Paul opens it up in the language. For example, I must mention, by using temple for us and temple for our gathering, then Paul has included host of heaven. You can't have the temple of God without the host of heaven. Supernatural beings. I was going to talk about that a bit on Sunday.

So when it says in Hebrews 12:22, you are come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, then it says the heavenly Jerusalem, innumerable company of angels, that host of heaven, the church of the firstborn. You know, a brother was trying to show me something one day and I smiled. He said, sir, I'm thinking whether that innumerable company of angels is not. Because sometimes you told us. There's also. This time you told us something. And I can't tell people that. I know it's good to, you know, to study further. But let me say something that I was misquoted yesterday when I said, but check how you are studying for that, right? I mean, nobody should put a limit on me. I want to break forth. You find yourself in the host of heaven. So he said to me, he said, don't.

I think he said he was just thinking that, you know, I'll talk about three guys, three sets of guys. There was one that said to me that. That he thinks that. That lifting up of hands in. In First Timothy 2, that the lifting of hands there, Luli. That he checked the word chaerel and was trying to look at him. He said, it's not literally hands. That was. I said, you're going to be in trouble. Then another set came up and said, when Paul says, in Hebrews 13:15 by him let us offer the sacrifice to pull our lives. Giving thanks to his name that what he's saying that he checked that word lips, huh? That is not literally giving thanks that the. I said, the trouble you are looking for was parked like a Christmas hamper.

And you think it's a good thing to eat, that it's called poison. What are you, what are you interpreting? How will you just take Greek and Hebrew words and begin to rasmatize your mind? So this guy said, the agenda since evangelists use for human beings. So I said, okay, good. The same book of Hebrew is where I'm going to start. Hebrews 1:4. He has obtained a better name than all the ministers of the gospel. When he brought the first begotten, he said, let all the ministers of the gospel worship. So I said, satisfying. I said, no, I'm not done. I said, every transgression and disobedience reward. Said I did not. All ministering spirit sent forth for who they are heirs of salvation. Which of the angels? Said he at any time said, so let's say those angels are men of God.

Which was the men of God? As he said at any time that my son, he kept smiling. I said, that's not even where I'm going to. There's one that is very important that when Christ came, he did not take on the nature of angels, but the seed of Abraham. I said, can you say something? He said, now I see, Rabbi. Now Rabbi, I see. I said, when the book is very clear on ideologies, what are you trying to do? You know, sometimes somebody teaching and gives you some information, you try to think wide. This also one plus 11, 11, 21, 111, you just be trouble. So the church, right? The moment you say church and temple host of heaven are involved.

So when Paul says in First Corinthians, First Timothy 3:15, that this is the house of God, you can't have house of God and not have house of God. Now let me ask you, how did Jacob know that was the house of God? He saw host of heaven. Right, that's it. So when we call ourselves the house of God or the temple of God, the hosts of heaven are here. So look at how heavenly things are. Your gathering is host of heaven. You're gathering. I'm not even talking about you directly before you start looking around when you're walking. So usually the temple of God says, I'm not alone. Now that's nice. So we have host of heaven nights. But Paul by Using host Seba. Seba is a ranking. It means it's not just a group, it's a strata stratification, different beings.

And of course Paul, interestingly, by using principalities, powers, might and dominion, he uses what we can call territorial language, cosmic language that deals with areas. Then that makes us pause. Now, let me say something that someone said to me one day and it really blessed me. And we're talking. So I said to him, I said that were dealing, we're talking about this was years ago, I'm not sure was early stages, I think of when we started sales commission. So I said to him, I said, but as an elderly minister. And I said, this conversation we're having, I said, it looks to me like what we ignored that Jehovah wickedness. People used to say that.

I said, I personally became a bit uncomfortable, you know, when we're talking about heaven and earth and all that it seems to be that Watchtower book, everybody's happy then dogs don't bite. And I'm very particular about the dog's part, so. And then he said, well, that the fact that somebody has twisted the truth and made an error out of it is the more reason why you should explain that truth that really blessed me. Because, you know, there's no way truth is. And it's perverted or. Yeah, perverted way will not look alike. So it's. It's left for you to properly explain it, you know. So I said that's true that you know, it's the way you will explain. Make it very clear. I like those days. He said that whenever you see that this is what I was saying.