You say, he has blotted out our transgressions. You go to Isaiah 43. Is that what the text you are reading? No, no. But you said under that Testament. It was under. You missed it totally. Because we often think that audience was so dense. How can they think that the blood of bulls and goats will take away their sins? They didn't think that way. So that supernatural context is so critical. It's not the only context of writing of Scripture. We shouldn't again get into the same error, but a major one. So in Matthew 24, if we don't read the Old Testament, this becomes very broad in our thinking. Matthew 24:29. Immediately after one of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give a light.

And the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of heavens, of the heavens shall be shaken. Then look at 30. Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. I'll take on this in the second session. And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn. They shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Now, if you don't read the Old Testament, you will be looking like Leucosite. What is it like? The sun will be darkened and the moon and the stars will fall. Then he says, the powers of heaven, which is pure Old Testament language, referring to the Old Testament language of the host of heaven. Now why would Jesus say this? Because his death and resurrection had to do with the host of heaven.

Then he talks about the Son of Man and the clouds. In the second service, we looked at the cloud that took Jesus out of their sight. It's an Old Testament language. It's not the cloud that drops rain. It's the Old Testament language I showed in Psalm 88, verse 4 to 7 was, who in the clouds is like unto you among the sons of the mighty? Psalm 88. So what language is this? Matthew 26 Again, when he was speaking to Cephas the high priest. Verse 64, Thou hast said, Nevertheless I say unto you, ere shall you see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power coming in the clouds of heaven. Cloud also is for hosts is a word for. Is a group word, a collective noun. We call it, you know, a compound word. Host of heaven.

Again, when we read the Old Testament, look at Acts 2. The Old Testament explains this to us. Acts 2. 19. Why is this important? Because right in the book of Acts, he says, it shall come to pass. Verse 17. In the last day, saith God, I'll pour out of my spirit upon all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. Your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dreams upon and on. My servants and my handmaidens are poured in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy. Look at 19. I will show wonders. I'm sure when you explain speaking in tongues, I get to this one. You just run quick. You don't say, what is this wonders? Just stay around, attend more services. He says, I'll show wonders.

In heaven above signs, in the earth beneath blood and fire and vapors of smoke. Earth believes Old Testament language. Then he says, the sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood. You think he's talking natural thinking the moon into blood. Look at Isaiah 13. So does it appear that New Testament writer is using Old Testament language? He is. Isaiah 13. Let me show you something else. Isaiah 13. Put your hands there and go to second Peter. Second Peter. I know we've been in this 1:3, but the day of the Lord, verse 10 will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, he says, and the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burnt up. The elements.

There is a swastoitia elemental spirit. Okay, look at 12. Looking for an hastening for the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements now those elements of hosts. So you can see that Peter retains that language. So Isaiah 13, verse 9. The day of the Lord cometh cruel, bold, and wrath, and first anger to lay the land desolate, and it shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it. For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light. The sun shall be darkened in its going, and the moon shall not cause our light to shine. Isaiah 5:30. Watch this. In that day they shall roar against them like the rearing of the sea.

If one looks to the land, behold darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof. Isaiah 24. 21 Shall come to pass in that day that the LORD shall punish look at that. Shall punish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings on the earth upon the earth shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison. We're coming to this later, after Many days they shall be visited, and the moon shall be confounded and the sun ashamed, when the Lord of hosts shall reign in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before his ancients gloriously. So you are seeing that narrative. Ezekiel 32. And verse seven. Let's even start from verse six.

I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest to the mountains, and the rivers shall be full of thee. And when I shall put thee out, Ezekiel 32:7, I'll cover the heaven and meet the stars there of dark I will cover the sun with a cloud. And he says, the moon shall not give our light. All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord. Now let me just say this in case you're talking about nature. Do you know in China now they started, they've created his son, their own sun. So this is about taking away the sun. The who will give you son? Air conditioner in the room. So this can't be natural things. In the law of Moses, this is interpreting supernatural things.

So obviously this is a supernatural language using cosmetology. Look at Joel 2. We are read Joel 2 already. Anyway, in Acts 2d 2, 30, I will show wonders in the heavens and the earth. Blood and fire are pillars of smoke. Now this usually is said when God wants to rescue his people. You will find this language is in Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Isaiah is in Habakkuk, which when he wants to rescue his people. Also when there is judgment against disobedience, you are going to see these signs. So there is no judgment without the supernatural world and there is no redemption. There is no judgment and there is no redemption. This is virtual world language. It shall come to pass. Verse 31. Again, the sons, of course, you know what happened in Joel.

He said they should cry, Said it will give them over to bondage, it will give them over to people to take over their position and all that. So when he now said, look, I will redeem you, he now says, I will. Afterwards I'll pour out of my spirit. Supernatural prophesied. He now said to them that I will judge the sun, moon and earth. Which means that in every such captivity, I've told you before, many of the wars in the Old Testament were spiritual. The problem is that we have read them in modern terms. So we see genocide and all those things. They were spiritual, supernatural beings were involved. And you will see this pattern in a moment. There is a pattern to it. There is a pattern to it. Go to Exodus 10. So let's say a few things quickly.

Every time there is captivity or many times in the Old Testament, we will find supernatural being involved. Why? Because the earth is a place of worship. Either you worship Yahweh or you worship what he has created. So anytime we find captivity, we'll find supernatural beings involved. And when we find a rescue of the captives, supernatural beings are also involved. Look at the Exodus. Exodus 10. All the plagues were clashed with the gods. All the plagues, not most of the. The plagues. Exodus 10:21. The Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt. Even darkness which may be felt. Then Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness. The land of Egypt. Three days. Now you assume that what happened was that Upnepa Phcn took light.

No, back up a little bit to Exodus 7, verse 19. Remember, we read. We read Acts 2, said shall be turned into blood, right? You see where the language came from? Acts 2. Take thy rod and stretch thy hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams, upon their rivers, upon their ponds, and upon their pools of water, that they may become blood. He says, throughout all the land of Egypt, both vessels of wood and vessels of stone. So notice where the concept of turned into blood. Look at chapter nine, verse 22. Stretch forth your hand toward heaven. Now pause in Genesis. Heaven and the waters are what? Supernatural life, right? Don't forget it. The waters. All right. Chaos. Heavens. So what's going on? What is going on here is supernatural. It's not natural. You think it's. Now, can it have effect in natural?

Oh, sure. But what is going on here is supernatural. Look at Malachi 4. So that language of sun, moon and stars that we are reading in Acts 2 or Matthew 24 and Isaiah was taken from the Exodus. It's from the Exodus that motif was now used by Every writer. Malachi 4 1. Behold, the day cometh, thou shalt burn as an open and all proud Yea, all that do wickedly shall be stubbled. The day shall come shall burn them up, saith the Lord God. It shall leave them neither root nor branch. I say to you that fear shall the Son. Now watch this. I say unto you that fear my name. Shall the Son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings, and shall go forth and grow up as a cow and a store.

And you shall tread down the wicked, for the shall be Satan. And so repeat in the day that be, saith the Lord of hosts. Remember, he says the law of Moses, my servant unto him in order for Israel with the statutes and judgments. So which means Barakah is saying, go back to the Exodus. You read and understand this meaning the Son of righteousness. So look at Psalm 78. So when there is judgment, we find supernatural beat. Psalm 78. And verse 49. This is the same. Pay attention here. This is the Exodus story. Aside from 41.

It says, he that turned back and tempted God and limited the Holy One of Israel, he remembered not in the in his hand or the day when he divided from the enemy, how he had wrought his signs in Egypt and his wonders in the field of Zoan, and turned their rivers to blood, and their floods they could not drink. He sent divers sorts of fires amongst them and devoured them, and the frogs which destroyed them, he gave also their increase to the caterpillar and their labour unto the locust. He destroyed their vines with ale and their sycomore trees with frost. He gave up their cattle to the ale and their flocks to hot thunderbolts. Let's take 49 slowly. So I want us to read it together.