Does it negate it coming back to what we said earlier? 1 Corinthians 6 mentioned that Paul says that we will judge the angels, First Corinthians 6 for doing what it has to have been an offense. Second Peter 2, verse 4 says, the angels that sinned, Jude 6, the angels that kept not their first estate, because angels also of heaven, right? Huh? Sons of God, okay. But left their own absent everlasting chains under darkness to the judgment of the great day. So no doubt the writer of New Testament recognized that there will be or there is a judgment of the host of heaven or sinful supernatural beings. One thing here. So is there not a problem with Matthew 22? There is, because there's no problem. Matthew 22, the context was the resurrection. Jesus was talking about the resurrection. And in the resurrection, right?

The physical bodies of believers will not be mortal. The physical bodies of believers, First Corinthians 15 are you learning something? Will be immortal. So that means that the heavenly bodies or supernatural bodies of these supernatural beings had the capacity to have procreation. So we had these supernatural beings, a crossbreed and very ridiculous one for that matter. So therefore there is the glorified bodies in the resurrection. Okay, let me just read my answer in Resurrection, which obviously notice that procreation for Adam and Eve did not happen in the garden. It was outside the garden. Glorified bodies. The tree of life also shows you the argument. The tree of life shows you that their bodies were not immortal. In fact, they need tree of life. So First Corinthians 15:42,44 shows that we will have imperishable, incorruptible bodies. That's what the resurrection is about.

So Jesus is saying, at the resurrection there will be no because at the resurrection is going to be immortal bodies, two immortal bodies. There will be no procreation. He's not in any way negating what Genesis 6 is talking about, which addressed by second Timothy, second Peter 2, 4 and Jude 5, 6, 7. Does it make sense? Does it make sense? So it doesn't in any way negate it at all because the language of Genesis 6 is very clear. They came into the daughters of men is sexual. And that's where we have those Anakims. And that is where Israel had much of the wars that they fought. Go Back to John 10. Are you here now? Is there still a possibility? Let me look for your Trouble. Look at First Corinthians 11. Could the arguments of James 11.

If we are going to readdress this particular text in any upcoming material, we are probably going to step it up a bit. We stay with just the cultural context. But there seems to be a supernatural world context in the issue of covering of head and all that. Again, because it has worship involved. And Paul is talking to Corinth where he mentions idols a lot. So we can't detach that quickly because chapter 10 had to do idols. Chapter 12 had to do idols. Chapter 10, chapter 8, Isaiah. Is there something about idol worship and the culture? So yeah, so we stopped with just the culture you have heard and all that. But there's something he said here. He's talking about women prosecuted, her head uncovered and all that. Then he says in verse seven, for a man indeed ought not to have his hair covered.

For as much as is the image and the glory of God and the woman is the glory of the man is not of the woman. That's the physical body speaking, and the woman is of the man. Neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man. Now this is one of the things we are going to address and Excuse me, Pastor, I have a question. I still have a question. This is one of those questions. Is Paul putting the man ahead of the woman? Yes. Now you need to understand the world where they lived. A key element of the ancient world and of course by the time we got to the Greco Roman era, was the fact that they were always dealing with disorder and order and chaos. So many of the social systems was to put in order.

They are not seeing equality. The way we see equality today is order. Somebody must be in charge. Now if you are writing at that time, you would use their language. You can't even accuse Paul of being a chauvinistic person because he spoke about unity more than any other writer of scripture, male and female. He had female apostles and all that. But when you are dealing with culture, you have to use their language. And so orderliness was one of the reasons why he had slave servants you know, I noticed that, you know, also somebody being in charge is always a system of order. Now from there we can have tyranny, no doubt. But this is in the mind of Paul when he writes here we deal with that. Now it says neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man.

For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels. Now in our earlier materials we said because of that distinction with angels and we brought in the supernatural world, quote, context. Now there are three propositions here. Three. So put the three down. That first one is because, you know, man is drawn from angels. That's the fourth proposition. Second one is there a tendency to see angels here, Angelus, as ministers of the Gospel? It's weak, but it's worth thinking about that to show authority. And all that is very weak was applicable. The third is Paul reminding us of Genesis 6:1:4. Is it strong? Is there a strong position that Paul is going back to Genesis 6? Do we have evidence that Paul refers to Genesis 6? Of course. First Corinthians 6. Right there will judge the angels. Which angels?

The angels that sinned. Where did they sin? They came to daughters of men. In anecdotal readers we use the distinction between man and angels, which is a context proper one. But can we advance it further? The one for Angelus or ministers looks very weak. Very, very weak. But it's Paul reminding us of Genesis 6:1:4. Who thinks so you are looking at the consequences. Although never be afraid of the consequences of proper Bible study. I'm going to talk on Sunday. On Monday. Sorry, maybe another. It's a paper I'm presenting somewhere and I said that in teaching the Bible we should not strive to be right like we should be faithful. You know, if you are trying to be right, it's like in the law court, lawyers know what I'm saying. You just want to prove something. I'm sure the other person is wrong.

But faithfulness means I will just say what is there. I might be wrong when I'm done. So we must stick to faithful interpretation. Just be faithful, you know, just be faithful with scriptures. Don't try to bring an opinion to do. No, it cannot be this. So I'm going to say it again. Does it look like Paul is taking. Because if you look at chapter six where it says we shall judge the angels, that is Old Testament, right? Huh? And Jude talks about it, Peter talks about it. Okay, so does it appear like Paul is bringing the JC6 narrative to it? Think about it let me leave you so. Because we are looking at me like, pastor, just say something. Let us. Let us be. What will be the implication that means if you don't cover your hair, right?

No, because the core of what he was dealing with was worship. And I can tell you that Genesis 6:1:4 was about worship. Sex and worship were interwoven in the Old Testament context. That's why when in numbers 25, what did Malab so go across these guys. But when you cause them to have sex with idol worshippers, and that happened to Solomon too, then you see destruction. And we've expanded that. 1 Corinthians 11. I want to say something very clearly here. That the air, this is also a proposition that the air was at that time seen in the cultures. The exposure of the air was like showing your cleavage was like a sexual exposure. So it's not the way we see here now. No, no, it's not the same thing. It's a proposition. It's debatable, but it is very plausible.

So Paul is dealing there with some level of nudity. And it's very strong because the symbolism of it, which we saw in Genesis 3, where it's strange that the writer says that the serpent was subtle arum A R U M which means very smart, seeking to deceive is both positive and negative. Then he says that Adam and Eve who told you were naked and it's like the same Anton who told you were naked. Like it sounds alike, the arum. I think that one Aram, it sounds the same thing. It's from the same route. So the concept of nudity, therefore, and should I say sexual liberty is spiritual. It has to be anyway. So at the back of that is that the argument of Paul? Like I said, there's no completion. We just had thinking. Okay, is that okay?

Because Paul couldn't bring in supernatural beings so easily like that and is not dealing with a supernatural context. There's no reason why you will mention angels if what you are dealing with is not supernatural. Without every course we think is a spiritual world context because it talks about worship. Who prays and prayer and prophecy is that worship. So by relating with air or indecent dressing, Paul is linking culture with supernatural beings. Are we here? And that will cause us to think so quick one already we're out of time. First Peter three. Hope you are learning something. First Peter three. I'll skip a couple of things. You know, we asked that we're looking at the what happened in 1 Peter 3 by which also verse 19 he preached unto the spirit in prison.

There were a lot of things we saw, a few things we saw the last time. Let me just briefly. We said that the Overall context of 1 Peter is that we are facing persecution. Remember that violence. 4Th 16 4, 3, 2, 12, 4th quarter 2 15, verse 18 to 24, 394319 to 17 4, verse 1 to 6, 4th quarter 4, verse 12 to 14 and 16 and 194 Switzer 58 to 10 now this is important. If we are dealing with oppression and we said in Acts 4, the scripture they went through while eating rage is supernatural war context that where we have persecution of the church is not against flesh and blood. So Peter definitely is dealing with non flesh and blood persecution, even though what they can see is flesh and blood. So we said that this spirit.

Of course the use of new mark is not. The New Testament writer doesn't use new man for man. No, it's usually an external force or a supernatural world being. So by saying space in prison, it's very likely or lends credence to the fact that he's relating with the host of heaven. Genesis 6, Genesis 11. Just that context again. Now watch this. This is important of course in 1st Peter 3. This is a bit of literary. There's something called a chasm, a chastic narration. I've taught you that in some series where there are group of censuses that they are scattered. It's systematically done where you can now put like and know what he's talking about.

Let's see what I mean in one Peter 3:16 having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you and of evildoers, they be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. For it is better if the will of God be so, and that you suffer for well doing, than for evil doing so. This is the context of suffering. For Christ also at once suffered for sins the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached to the spirits in prison, who sometimes were disobedient. When once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was preparing, wherein filled that eight souls were saved by water.

The like figure whereunto baptism doth also now save us not the putting away of the faith of the flesh, but the answer of the good conscience was God. Now look at 22 who is gone to heaven, who is on the right hand of God. Now notice this. Angels and authorities and powers Being made subject to him. And these angels, authority and powers, are they spirit beings? Okay, they are spirit beings being subject to him. So this is the chair. Let me just close here because I'll just. Let me just wrap this up. Now the word preached got my attention. You know, I would have said it last week or two weeks ago. Now the word preached. Now usually the word preached for evangelism is shuangelism, where you are bringing a particular news to convince evangelism. Now, of course they are used differently. Really?

I don't want to, I don't want to box you into a corner so that you are. You won't be a bit biased. However, in first. Now in first Peter I just read first Peter. And so that in first Peter 4, 1 Peter 1:12, the same book where he said preach the gospel. Preach the gospel. 112 1St Peter 1. 25 The gospel is preached. She was Elizo 1 Peter 4:6. Everywhere he used preached here 4 Peter 4:6 for this course was the gospel preached to them that are dead. So everywhere use preach the gospel. But in First Peter 3, 9, 19, he doesn't say gospel, uses Keruso K E R U S O to announce. So this might invalidate our earlier position that this was Noah. I might not. Because did Noah preach in Genesis for people to believe or he announced God's judgment?

That is up for a conversation. But if Peter uses Caruso here and he doesn't use the typical it means it's a different context. So in the death of Jesus, particularly in his resurrection, was it a declaration? Caruso simply means to make a declaration. And notice that the declaration that Peter preached that Jesus used in hell is the resurrection were found on the leaves of David, where having won victory, they just declare we have won. We are lord over you. So in the resurrection, did Jesus preach to these beings? Yes. How he's far above. He's the most high. Far above all principalities. Power, mind blowing. That itself is a preaching announcement above host of heaven, including the fallen ones. It's very, very believable and plausible. So we're going to look at it again.

As I've been said earlier, I'll close here that the death of Jesus and resurrection had more to do with the heavenlies than just earthly realities. What happened from the cross to the throne that E.W. Kennel will say what the devil saw and what God saw. We'll continue from here.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/