This is what he told Kephas the High priest. So therefore, right the context of his work by saying, you see with the clouds of heaven shows you that he will assume power as the Lord of hosts, a human being. He was Lord of hosts before the incarnation. But what we are going to now see is the Lord of hosts as a man above all of God's creatures. And this is the core of this series which we are getting into gradually, that Adam was the first man. Because look at this. Genesis chapter two. Now there's a tricky question here. Is He Adam the individual or Adam humanity? Both of them will fall in line. Don't worry. Genesis is true. It says in verse 8, the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden. There put the man whom he had formed.

Now we have seen Eden is a mountain in the earth. Eden is on high. So he put the man there. What else has happened in Genesis 3:8, we saw the voice of the Lord God, that is definitely Jesus, walking in the garden in the cool of the day. Walking is a tabernacle language. But there was the serpent. So we can connect this all to human activity. So the work of the serpent in disobedience, Isaiah 14 is also through human activity. The sin of the devil and the sin of humanity occur together. The only way supernatural beings can offend God is through man. That's the only way. It's through mankind. It's a structure God put in the other. That's why we can have Tohoboho. This order is through man.

So what is happening through the church today is to bring order, to bring things the way God wanted it and planned it. And he made sure it was man who did it. Of course you can say it's God, man, but man. So mankind still remains the centerpiece of what he's doing. So John 10 definitely is not an argument or Jesus speaking about, oh, a man can also be called God. That won't be a blasphemy. I can also be like the Israelite. Sorry, that can't be blasphemy. The blasphemy is claiming that he sits. I look at that Psalm 82. He says, Arise of God and judge the earth. So by making those claims he's saying, is that God and that's what he sends them. Just like John 8 before Abraham. I am so.

No doubt when we speak of the judgment in the world, it has to occur with the supernatural world. Which means that anything we see done with the gospel or prayer in the earthly realm has an heaven side to it. The keys of the kingdom, whatever you bind on earth is bound in heaven. Those are the keys of the kingdom. So our mindset. There's one other text I keep skipping. I think it's second Peter 3. We've seen it before. Just for. For emphasis. Second Peter 3. These are other texts that you know because of the way the Greek. Okay, I've seen the one I'm talking about. All right, start with that two first. Let's say two. And Jude 8. 210 And Jude 8. Read them together. Jude 8 first. Likewise also these filthy dreamers, defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignitaries.

So go to second Peter 2:10. But chiefly them that walk out of the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, despise government, presumptuous are they self willed. They are not afraid to speak evil of dignitaries. Then 11 says, whereas angels, which are greater in power and might Bring not reigning accusation against them before the Lord. Jude 8. When Michael the archangel then contended with the devil, he disputes about the body of Jesus does not bring against him a real accusation. But said the Lord rebuked me. So Jude and Peter speaking about the same thing. The word there is doxa glorious ones. So put that somewhere because we're going to look at it doxa glorious. Also look at second Peter 3. And verse 10. The day of the Lord.

Again, the day of the Lord shall come as a thief in the night in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise. And the elements are spiritual forces. Shall melt away with fervent heat. The earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing that all this will be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you be in all holiness or holy conversation and godliness, looking for and hastening unto the coming of the day of God, when the heavens being on fire, shall be dissolved and the elements will fervent you? This is not natural. This is the supernatural world again in the day of the Lord. So which means that, and this is critical that in God's judgment about sin or iniquity or disobedience, there's always a concurrent judgment with supernatural beings. It works together. So it's not just.

I usually will just view the. You know, where he says no, that there is the supernatural beings. So whatever is in the day of the Lord is focused Writer of the New Testament is focused on the supernatural world than it is in the natural. Of course, the day of the Lord here is usually talking about judgment. Judgment. Let me say a simple way of saying judgment, a very simple way of calling. We say judgment is punishment. Not really. Judgment is a separation. When you make a decision, it's also called justice. Because when you take light from darkness, it's a separation and it's a judgment. We call it punishment. We think because something is done wrongly to the one that is evil. No, that separation is holy. Now, if that separation is to eternal damnation, it is justice and judgment. Before judgment, condemnation.

And what's it again? Judgment is first of all a separation. When you separate, you take evil and good, don't put them in the same place. That's judgment. When you don't put them in the same place is judgment. When you don't put light, that is the same place, that is judgment. And it's justice is the right thing to do. Again, something we explore. So the New Testament author does not play down all the supernatural world at all. It's clear, therefore, in the host of heaven. We have good and bad just the same way we have in humanity. And there is no further evidence than the fact that in Ephesians, the writer of Ephesians or the author speaks of Jesus far above all prepared.

Matthew 9:21 then talks about the prince of the power of the air in chapter two, verse two, then talks about the church or the believer raised up together with Christ. Chapter two, verse five and six in the heavenly. Then chapter three, verse ten says. Says the intent. Now the presence of power in the heavenlies might be made known by the church, the manifold wisdom of God. Now this is a bit tricky. Is this the good guys or the bad guys? Well, put your hands there and look at first Peter 1. You have good guys and bad guys. First Peter 1:12.

Unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us did it minister the things which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost, send them from which the angels now throw somewhere else to the angels. What would you have put there? Right? Desire to look into. Desire to look into the text. I'm trying to see, Are these the good guys or the bad guys? Huh? These are good guys, huh? To desire to look into it or both? Both is middle of the road. Good guys or bad guys? Look at Exodus 25. Moses actually put something like that out in the way he built Tabernacle. Remember the ark? The ark is where that depicts the presence of God, right? That's the temple. That's the heaven of heavens. Are you here?

That's the heaven of heavens. So look at 21, verse 19. Make one cherub one end, the other cherub on the other end. Even of the mercy seed shall you make caribou on the two ends thereof. Caribbean are supernatural beings. That's what they are. They are flying serpents, so he says. And the Caribbean shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings. And their faces shall look one to another towards the messenger. The faces of the. That means that is showing them something that the supernatural beings who want to see Yahweh in the midst of men. Moses actually pictured that in the way he built the tabernacle. You will not put the message upon the ark. In the ark, thou shall put the testimony that I will give you so.

Which means that evil spiritual beings desire to see it, to see God in humanity. And that means that the most high God, that seat of the most high, allow me use that phrase, is now with men. Is with men. Because the Concept of the tabernacle of God in Exodus 25 is to show God amongst men. So God amongst men is higher of a height, higher than the Lord of hosts, amongst the hosts of heaven. That's the concept that even in the tabernacle is. So like I said before, these are not things that the Moses are just. It's right there in the things that they said. And we saw it in Genesis 2 that why the heavens and the earth seem to be, you know, different levels. In Genesis 1, you don't find the dominion over the heavens given to mankind.

Genesis 1 by Genesis 2, by bringing man into his own tabernacle. And you find the voice of the Lord God walking there. This is the destination or destiny of all humanity, above all of God's scriptures. That's why the psalmist says, what is man? You are mindful of him, he said, you are made him a little lower, which means you can't see spirit. Someone and stars under him said, but you have crowned him with glory and honor and put him over the works of your hands. So the writer of Hebrew says, we do not see it, but we saw it in Jesus, who was made a little older than the Elohim for a time. So then when he rose from the dead, his pope, his brother and palm might have dominion. Now we see humanity seated with the Most High.

Is that very clear or in the Most High. So until we understand the authority that Jesus has over, we don't know what be given authority is until we see that and we're able to see that it is a place in the supernatural world or community. So there's a heaven side to earth. Okay? There's a heaven side to the earth, the supernatural one to the earth. So that is why every human being that we relate with has a heaven side to them or a supernatural world. Every human being. I repeat myself again. Every human being has a supernatural world to their existence, to the things that they do, because the world is heaven and earth is visible and the invisible. So let me just open up a coin so we'll see it next week.

Look at 2nd Samuel 6, when David was bringing back the ark. I'm trying to get to this subject. I just didn't get to it. Second Samuel 6. And verse. Two, aside from one and again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, 30,000. And David arose and went with all the people that were with him from Judah to bring up from hence the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, that dwells between the Cherubims. Now, you know, we just read that in Exodus 25. Good. Now I'll find this out for you in a separate journey. Now, the ark is a heaven of heavens. The ark is, excuse me, is seen as God's presence in the tabernacle. Just read this, All right?

It says, and bring up from there the ark of God, on which the name of the Almighty God, Almighty Lord, who is seated before the kingdoms. Now, in the construct of the Hebrew, when it says the name, all right, The Hebrew is, which is the almighty God. So the acronym for God's presence is the name. Name of the Lord is not Alphabet. It's not even just an expression. The name of the Lord is the Lord himself. Those are the right hand, O Lord. It's like call it an alias. The name of the Lord is an alias. Like Yahweh, otherwise known as the Name or the name of the Lord God. So you can substitute the word presence of the Lord for the name of the Lord.

That is why when Jesus said, I come in my Father's name, it's not just authority in my Father's name. He is describing himself as that. Exodus 23:20 21 angel of the Lord, I come in him that is in me, that is, I embody Yahweh himself. That was how they got upset. He said, I come in the name of God's authority. Everybody goes in the name of the Lord, but I come in the name there. The word Shem, because in Hebrew means reputation. It also means presence. So that's why John 17. Six, I have manifested thy name to the men. I've shown who you are to the men which you gave me. Out of the wall, down the well, and thou givest them me, he says, and they have kept our John 17:6, your name. Look at verse 26. I showed you last time.

I have declared unto them your name. I will declare that the Lord wherewith thou hast loved me, may be in them, and I in them. So the name of the LORD is his person. So the temple or the tabernacle is. Is the place of his name. Look at Deuteronomy 12. Let's just quickly start moving the ends there. Deuteronomy 12. Quick, quick. I'll just one hand. You can go to Exodus 20:12 and verse 4, 5, but to the place that the LORD your God shall choose, in one of your cities. All right. To name that his name may be invoked in that place also seek him there. That his name. I'm going to read verse 15. No, not 15. Verse 11.

It shall be to the place wherein the Lord God should choose his name to be invoked there to choose his name, to put his name first. Kings 8. So when Solomon built the tabernacle, look at what he said. Verse 29. That your eyes will be open towards this house night and day, towards the place which you have said. My name shall be there. My name shall be there, that thou mayest hearken to the prayer which thy servant shall make towards this place. So. And he calls it his dwelling place, your name. So his name is his dwelling. So Exodus 20. And verse 7. Thou shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. It's not about calling Jesus. That's not what he's saying, the name. So can we also say the Ark? Huh? Temple? Huh? Okay. In vain for vanities.

All right. Can this be identified with the temple? Huh? What about our gathering? Huh? Come on. Our gathering is for his name, for his presence. And look at the word bear. Just add this. You see that name, NASA. It is the same. It is to bear an image. Genesis 1:26. Let's make man in our image. So we also bear his image, which is the body of Christ, the assembly of the saints. So when he says, here, don't take Lusu to Nasser. To bear the name of the Lord. God is about the temple, the place of worship, the place of fellowship, the place of our union with deity. In vain. It's not about calling names. No, that's not what it's referring to at all. It's about the presence of God. Because the name of God and the dwelling place of God is the same.

So when I say I've come in the name of God, it means I am his dwelling place. I'm embodying Yahweh, whoever believes in his name. So as much as believe in his name, that means in his dwelling, in his revelation, in his expression. Shall whoever calls upon the name of the Lord. The name of the Lord and the Lord are interchangeable. And so in Matthew 18:20, I'll close here, where two or three are gathered together in my name. It's not just authority, it's about his dwelling. There am I, or I am in the midst thereof. Continue next.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/