We are servants. So he said, you can't do this for you. You can't serve yourself. You can't please your habit, because you know the earth is the Lord's and the fullness is his Own so will bear the position of others would suffer persecution for that sin, even rejection. He said, that's the point. So the earth doesn't say that the food belongs to God? More than that, he said, the earth is his resting place. It is place of worship. But because the fellow has conscious of idols. Look, you know what he said in 1 Corinthians 8? This was to be unsaved because he did not believe not 1 Corinthians 8 about the believer. He's not the one taking it. But he thinks if anybody takes it, that the person is worshipping an idol. Paul now says, look in verse seven.

There is not in every man that knowledge for some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thin offer to an idol, and their conscience, being weak, is defiled. Then he says, now Paul is not ignoring idol context. No, he won't. He can't. Nobody could. Nobody can ignore. How is to deny this earth a supernatural status Again, if you think idol is the sugaring the image in one shrine in your village. No, not at all. It says in verse 8. But meek comments of First Corinthians 8, not to God. For neither if we eat. Or are we better? Neither if we eat not are we. This is not health. All right. Aha. Because there are things you will eat, you do also. Paul is not a doctor. Can you see this going back to Leviticus. That is not.

Is not the food. Paul is not saying eat anything. That's not what he's saying. But take heed, lest by any means this liberty of yours becomes a stumbling block to them that are weak. Venom. And see thee which has knowledge sit at meat in the idol temple shall not be conscious of him which is weakly and boldly to eat those things which are offered to idols. That is, he eventually think, there is no big deal in idols. And through your knowledge shall your weak brother perish, whom Christ died when you sin so against the brethren. The second one was the unbeliever, he says, and wound their weak conscience. You see, sin against christ. Let's take 13 together. Wherefore if meat makes my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world stands, lest I make my brother to offend.

What is my brother's offense? That is, he is having a consciousness of the worship of an idol. Paul says, no, don't make people stumble. No. So there are things we avoid, not because we don't know the word, but because we are in his image. And our work here is to be priests. We are to be Priests. So back to what we're saying about waters. So the waters, sorry. Second the waters of Eden are the waters of salvation. And don't Forget John 1:14, the word became flesh, tabernacle, dwelt amongst us. So if it's given waters. And the fourth tabernacle in Scripture is Genesis 2, right? Eden. Right. So Eden, Christ becomes Eden in a person. So in John 3, born of waters of Eden. John 4, I'll give you rivers of rivers. That's waters of Eden. John seven rivers of living water.

John four, A well spoken of unto everlasting life. The water that shall give you shall be a well spring of everlasting life. John 4, 13, 14. If you drink water, you thirst again. So that's Eden. John 7:37,38. Come to all your thirst. And for out of Scripture says, out of his bless shall flow rivers of living water. That is Eden. Again, Eden is where it's on I Eden is God's rest place. Eden is that mountain is the hill. Eden is that place. Established upon the floods. I mean. Yeah, upon the. Found upon the floods. Found upon the waters. The sea. Sorry. Established upon the floods. So when we talk about the king of glory coming in again, coming back to the sec. The coming of Christ, I've said to you many times, there's something called second coming. A wrong long distance altogether second.

And that is going to take us a while to debunk because it's in all our heads, including my own. Some of you have been expecting for a long time, you know. But I discarded him years back, many years back because it just didn't line up with Scripture. The first thing you notice that the New Testament, the Old Testament writers didn't write anything about that. There was nothing at all. I remember it was. Yeah, I think I was one. We're doing a study, my friends. And we said that how come Jesus never spoke about the Rapture? So our conclusion that day was. Well, that was a revelation given to Paul because Jesus never did. It was clear to us was one time when were in a friend's house, his uncle's house at ogudu, that was 1996.

And we're saying the look that this doesn't look like Rapture. One shall be taken away. This is obviously judgment. That's not so Wexd she doesn't talk about it. But so. But something a friend said. He said, look, even though he didn't talk about the rapture disappearance, he talked about the bodies being glorified, which is John 5. He said I mean that the dead in Christ, those who are dead rise to everlasting life. Those were so did speak about it. But how come he didn't talk about somebody just walking away and pimp and say where is he? He's gone on 66 is here. How come wasn't why no other person spoke. How about Paul said where Paul was giving a unique revelation. So for a while I said that. I said Paul had a unique revelation of the Rapture till everything just crumbled.

This is all Paul is talking about. Then Christ shall rise first and all that. Paul and Jesus in John 5 were saying about the same thing. But Jesus and Paul in Matthew 24 are not the same thing. So the coming of Christ has to be well explained. The psalmist has said the king comes when the glory fills the earth. So the coming of Christ is the fulfillment of God's plan for the earth. That's what it means. So when Jesus came, he said, thy kingdom come, that's the coming of Christ. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. That's the coming of Christ. Somebody was saying that. How then can we now explain the coming of Christ? I told him, that was yesterday. I said, which one? He said, sir, that's my problem. I only know one coming of Christ.

I said, there's not one because there are different ones. It's simply manifesting an intervention. Look at one. Look. Wait, Sorry. There's a text I'm looking for. It's in Luke. Okay, look at Luke 9:27. We'll be there. I tell you of the truth. There shall be Luke 9:27. Shall be ashamed of me and my words, which are the Son of man. Be ashamed and shall not come glory and his Father and holy angels. I tell you the truth. There shall be some standing here that shall not taste death till they shall see the kingdom of God. We read that in. Look at Matthew 12, Matthew 16. Sorry, verse 28. Notice that he says, see the kingdom. Okay, let's see. Matthew.

Verily I say unto you, there shall be some standing here that shall not taste there till they see what the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. You get it now? So the kingdom, the coming of the Son of Man are the same thing. So what is this kingdom? We've seen the different expressions of the coming of the Son of Man. So I. I don't know, must be. Look 9. The scripture just ran away from my head. Now I will get you. Can you note it down? This is the danger of not putting your everything down. Just assume that I Remember the scripture very easily. Look at acts 1, Verse 9. And when he had spoken these things while they beheld, the while they beheld was taken up. And a cloud will see them out of their sight. Cloud is supernatural. Congregation. Right.

Or you are looking at the clouds that bring rain. Okay. Now, when it looks away toward heaven, I. As he went up, behold two men stood by them in white apparatus. That shows you what the cloud was. Right? Right. Two men. Why is it you men of Galilee? Why stand ye gazing into heaven? I don't like this statement. How can you call them men of Galilee? They are born again. Men. Apostles. What's that? He said? Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in manner. As you have seen him go into heaven. So now the point is, shall come in manner. What manner? Clouds. Right. Are we here? What manner do you think it is? It's clouds. So look at Luke. Look at Matthew. Matthew 26, verse. As Jesus.

In 64, thou hast said, nevertheless, I say unto you, either you shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. That's what the man said. Clouds. So we need to know what clouds are. Cloud is not the one that brings rain. The supernatural context of the manifestation of Jesus in the earth. Which means that they will see his manifestation supernatural. And they saw it on the day of Pentecost. They saw it in many instances. Every time you see God intervene, that's the coming, that's the kingdom. Because don't forget, this conversation came from where will you restore the kingdom? To Egypt. So you go and preach the gospel. You go and preach the gospel. That's the times and the seasons. With the Father has his Father.

You go and preach the gospel till the ends of the earth. And that is the covenant of the Son of man. Look at Luke 20, 22. Luke 21. Sorry. And 28, Verse 25. And there shall be signs in the sun and the moon and the stars, and upon the episodes of nations and perplexed the seas and the waves roaring. Guys, this is not natural, okay? Aha. Let me just show you somewhere. Isaiah 3, Isaiah 30. Thing. You see the same thing. Isaiah said it. And it's not the clash of celestial bodies where the Bible uses this language. It's the supernatural context of the world. Isaiah 13, verse 6. Hold you. For the day of the Lord is at hand. It shall come as a destruction from the Almighty. So quickly go to verse 10.

For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not Give their light. The sun shall be darkened and is going forth. The moon shall cause our light to shine. This is supernatural world, the host of heaven. So Luke 21 again, verse 26. Men's hearts failing them for fear, for looking after those things which are coming on the earth. For the powers. Can you see it? The heavens shall be shaken. Then shall they see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory. When these things begin to come to pass, then look up and lift up your heads, for your redemption draws near. So that's why it's not people escaping from here. Nobody said that. Nobody thought it out at all. Right, so again, the context here is the supernatural world.

So let's just say this and close today, that the New Testament writer did identify with that. And he was. Even though is more modern than the Old Testament writer, he retains theology of the earth as a supernatural world. Ephesians 6. And quickly, let's look at Ephesians 1. We'll just touch them briefly and then move. Take it up again by Monday. This is Paul. He says in verse 19, what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us? One who believe according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ, when risen from there, set him in his own right hand. Remember that right hand. We read about Jesus, okay? In the heavens. So he's saying to us that what he said to Cephas, the high priest, said the right hand happened in resurrection.

And that says far above all principles and power, might and dominion, everything that is named not only in this world, but in that which is to come. Now, which is the one to come? The fullness. Right? Aha. That's the one to come. Not when you die Heaven. No. And had put all things under his feet and gave whatever all things to his church, which is the body. That's union, the fullness of him, the word fullness of him that fled on. Now look at chapter two again. He says in verse six, he has raised us up together. So this cannot be second coming. To sit together in heaven, in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come, okay? He might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness towards us through Jesus Christ.

Ephesians 3:8 unto me, okay, eight unto me, who am less than the least of all saints. Is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ to make all men see what is the first of the mystery which from the beginning of the world had been hidden in God who created all things by Jesus Christ. Let's take 10:30 together to the intent and now onto the principles and powers in the heaven might be made known by the Church. So this reality of heaven is. Is today's reality. And when this is happening, that is the coming of the Son of Man. You shall say, you will see the Son of Man in cloud. The cloud is the church. You will see the Church walking in his rights and privileges, walking in his dominion, in his authority.

That's what Jesus was saying. Look at Ephesians again. Six Principalities and power. He says, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high Wherefore take unto you the whole Lamb of God. So if we first of all debunk heaven as where dead people go, as a reality of the spiritual world, a complexion of the earth, then saying the Son of Man will come from it all those things will just be clear to you that this manifestation takes place in the earth. Because don't forget the earth is the salvation, the earth is redemption. Take that, take that totally in our minds. So in closing today we just say this and rest it for now that we must understand that the earth is contextually a supernatural world.

Things may appear natural, but the earth this also lead us to superstition. I told you, when you are. When everything for you is spiritual, then you are getting superstitious. But when everything is natural, then you are an idiot. Because that's what you are. You are an idiot. You have to see far so close like that today. And then TikTok again Monday. We start seven on Monday, I assure you. So the context of the world, the moment you know that this earth is God's temple, then treating the earth as just a material world. A no vamosis vanishes on your mind totally. All right, learn something.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/