Third, 3, 16. Quickly. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. Spoke to for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. So our question remains, does the New Testament writer retain the content of the Old Testament? Of course. Not the culture. And that's why there's a fight with Judaism. Not the culture. Okay. However, not even the lingua, the linguistics, because it uses Greek. They use Imrun, ancient Nestan language, Osborne language. But we cannot get to theology without crossing those barriers, since that's what God inspired and used. But theological context, does it stay in the New Testament Author? Yes, in the sense of the use of spirit. Pneuma. Many times. The use of Theos. Many times. Okay. Shows you that there is a context. I guess tomorrow or Monday we'll look at the word in Him.

I believe many versions have done injustice to that word in him. It is more corporate than individual. It has done many injustices, more injustice. That phrase in him. So you have this. Does it retain it? It does. For example, John 2:11, talking about signs. John talked about signs. Semayon S E M I E O n from the Hebrew oth O T H. The first use of sign is in the host of heaven. Genesis 1:14, 15. Signs for the day, the night, and all of that. And then you have also in the Exodus, signs of the Exodus. What Moses did was signs. So by using signs in Exodus, the word, same word oath. Moses is lending credence to Genesis that this is an heavenly concept. Signs. Signs would mean all the signs in Egypt were supernatural. That is host of heaven issues.

What we have in Egypt. And a John should retain that by using signs. John 20. Just read that quickly. John 20. I didn't want to go into it in detail, but let's just mention John 20 and 31 or 30, many other signs. John use the word sign a lot. Of course, we have the seven and eight signs. John 2:11, the beginning of the miracles. Jesus give Jesus in kind of Galilee. There you have John 2. Yeah. The manifest of his glory and disciples believed on him. Then the way he numbered miracles shows you that he has a purpose. We all the time should recognize that authors have intentions. Why they write. And those intentions must be the way we read their letters. So the New Testament author retains it. The New Testament, the Epistles. We've been here before. Just another reference.

Galatians 4, 9, 11. The word toiture that we have seen in Galatians 4:3, verse 9 through to 11, which refers to spiritual beings. Colossians 2, 8 and 20. We've been there before. Second Peter 3, 10, 11 elements. Hebrews 5, 12 and 13. So the New Testament author does. It doesn't just talk about doctrine. Without a spiritual context of doctrine. That's a New Testament author. So we do have that background in the New Testament. So Balaam saying is that there is a heavenly side of even normal stories. There's a heavenly side to it, to normal stories. There is stories that this is just about, is it not? Abraham and Sarah and Lot. There is supernatural side to that story. Why? Because Psalm 24:1 says the earth space is planted upon the seas. Founded. Sorry upon the seas. Skipped a note here. Just look for it.

All right, so let's go to John 10. One of the reasons why Jesus was killed, the major reason why he was killed. There were two major accusations. And I think I'm going to say this again. You notice as much as he spoke the Word and preached the Gospel and he was for the poor and the oppressed, he never ever became a critic of the government such that he tried to upstate the government. That's why Herod and Pilate said nothing they had done. It wasn't a threat, but they brought him to them. So it wasn't an issue with the government. He didn't have running back to the police. They brought him. It was religious leaders that brought Jesus to them. It wasn't the other way around. They didn't go to complain, say, go and check that your pastor, he didn't do that.

And if you notice too, it happened to Paul, of course, later on he had issues with Caesar and all that which had to do with the fact that he called Jesus the son of God. But it was nothing that had to do with breaking civil laws or crime. That's why Peter says, if you suffer, don't suffer like an evil doer or somebody who breaks laws. Let it because you are a Christian. That must be very clear in our minds. When a pastor gets on the pool, begins to insult the government, then they come after him, says for the gospel. It's not the gospel. This is your own personal work. That's what you're doing. So Jesus didn't have that. So they took him to Pilate and they had two accusations. One of them after they had reacts with the guy, the light did not gel.

I said he was going to bring down the temple and he felt with what he said, your boy, this is not going to fly out this guy temple. Can you even carry the chair for something else? So they couldn't. But the one that was the One that they convicted him over was what he said by himself. Look at Matthew 26. You say, why did they kill Jesus Christocentric? I'm Christocentric too. Don't forget. We say for our sins. So you mean Cephas, the high priest, said, we are going to kill you for our sins? He said, no. He said, it's God that did what that killed you for our cities? No. So why regulate? Just read and understand it. That in Matthew 26, Why they. Now let's move. Let's read Matthew 20:22. Are you learning something? Verse 41.

They kept coming at him and notice that Matthew said they were trying to catch something from what he said. They were trying to see what he would say. They were trying to pick out something he said and all that. But look at verse 41. They asked him about verse 35. One of them asked him, what's the great commandment of the law? He answered him. He came back again. He kept asking questions. That is tearing off. And they were playing the role of the Old Testament Satan. Satan in the Old Testament is both good and evil. It's not the devil, as we say today. It just means one who brings accusations, or one who opposes you, or one who is trying you, puts you on trial. So when he says here that.

And he answered them, then the guided again 41 and said, and asked him, what think you of Christ? Whose son is he? He said of David. He asked them. Sorry. Then he asked him and he said to them, how then does David in spirit call him Lord? Saying the Lord said to my Lord. That is a very technical area of the Old Testament where you have Yahweh. Adonai said to my Lord, sit on my right hand till I make thine enemies. Thy footstool. On face value, it is Adonai the priest. No, the Adonai is Yahweh himself. Because by the time you read it, another Melchizedek verse 4, then that shows you that whoever is being spoken to is the most high. Then he says, if David then calls him Lord, verse 46, how is he his son? Look at 46.

And no man was able to answer a word. Neither does any man from that day ask him any more questions. Okay? Course, this is relative to that particular time, because he still has two questions after. So they now started to plan, you know, how they were going to arrest him and all of that. So Matthew 26, Verse three down. When they came after him, the look at verse 15, they came to Judas and says, we'll Give you money, betray him and all of that. So now what was now the point? You can't just take somebody and say, you know. So they now asked him, look at verse 59. Now chief priests and the elders and all the council sought false witness against Jesus to put him to death. Paul's witness found none.

Yea, though many false witnesses came and found none, at the last came two false witnesses. I mean, this is serious. And said, this fellow said, I'm able to destroy the temple of God and to build it in three days. The high priest arose and said to him, answer thou nothing. What is this witness against thee? That is, I mean, you want to build the temple in three days? He heard his peace. Then he now asked the question, because he knows that judgment call from the Old Testament was to destroy this temple. And then he says, judgment? Then what's going to happen? Then they know. That's why they asked, what is the sign? He says, after three days, I'll raise it again. Jesus now answered back and said, then they asked the answer. I judged the believing God.

Are you the Christ, the Son of God? I think Luke says, the son of the blessed. Is it Luke or Mark, the son of the blessed. Then he now answered and said, Nehemiah said, wherever you shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power and coming, can we say the host of heaven. Huh? That means a man, a human being, will sit in the most High because anyone above the clouds is that most high. Right? Okay, good. And I present this closer and say, this is blasphemy. We need no further witnesses, because what I've heard is blasphemy. The answer, he's guilty of death. It's part of his face. So this is why his claim to be a man like God was the offense. Is this found in Scripture?

Now let's put it together and say it's one of those things that God will blindside the devil. Because in Genesis 3:15, the seed of the woman, both Adam and Eve and the audience of the writers of Genesis, anything, he's talking about messianic prophecy or somebody coming to die for our sins. No, but that's not what it was. So. But by the time you put the Scriptures together and put everything together, you're going to see will be like you are now seeing the answer and say, oh, that's the question. That's why to understand this will start with faith. Then now go back and say it according to the Scriptures. So when he said that this was why they convicted him, he A man saying he is God. That's what they are saying. Because only the most high sits in the clouds.

Because in the Old Testament, the cloud weather is called BAAL fake one. And God dealt with BAAL to say, I own the clouds, I own the host of heaven. So those words class kept coming up in New Testament writings as well, and also the four Gospels. So this was very critical to why he was crucified. His identification with man is why he was killed. His elevation with man, you know, if it was Yahweh that just bound. But you can see a human being in fact in their captivity saying, I am the most high. That's what he was saying, I am the most high coming in the clouds of heaven. I said, this guy is mad. They didn't even know that in those clouds we evolved human beings. Peter, James and John and all of us here. We are not in that cloud.

There's no pilot. Don't worry, we're both so in John 10. So that claim of divinity in humanity or humanity with divinity was the ultimate offense. John 10, are you here? John 10, Verse 30. I and my father are one. So look up stones to stone him. But really, when it comes to blasphemy, it's not the cross, it's stoning. And he said, many good works have I showed you from my Father. For which of those works do you stone me? They said, for a good work will stone thee not, but for blasphemy, because thou hast thou been in man makes yourself God. Now, verse 34 is where we're going. Then he said to them, is it not written in your law? I have said you are gods. If he called them gods unto whom the word of God came, then the Scriptures cannot be broken.

Now of course, you know that a couple of people have used this. Otherwise. Now this is obviously a quote from Psalm 82. The argument here is that the gods here are human judges. There are two arguments about this, that the gods he's referring to are human gods. But the reason why this is so Psalm 82, God stands, verse 1, in the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods. Let me read this to you from the Septuagint Bible. In the Septuagint Bible you are going to have it. In Psalm 81, God stood in the assembly of the gods. In the middle, he judges the gods. Pay attention because this is going to connect to what we said earlier. So this view says this God here are human gods or human Elohims. When he says in verse six, I've Said, you are God's.