He will take own alcohol. And sometimes he will say to the glory of God. That's how the parents came of the youth church and said young people were coming home drunk. They will go, some now got drunk into the service. So I said, no, no. It's about, you know, limits. Where is the limit? Who knows the limit? Follow the Holy Ghost. Does he drink with you? Does he leave it? So you know, the man was. He regretted because people. I mean by the time you start talking about cigar, people start taking shisha. I know that's endless possibilities. You can't stop cocaine, you can't stop drugs, you can't stop weed. You say, no, that one is not good for your health. Says what? Even those who advertise cigarettes will say, this is a cigarette.

Smoking is dangerous and it's one of the fastest selling thing in the world. But they put the warning there and the alcohol say no, I don't really, I'm not. Sometimes I'm a social drinker. There was somebody who also uses drugs. I'm a social user. When I have occasion, I just take it. Just occasionally I don't do it up. I'm going for a bank. Are you following what I'm saying here? He says you are a separate people. So it goes into the diet that they were eating in Canaan for worship. That was the context. He tied it to worship. So it's not, they are not dietary laws. So don't think that, what does God have against crayfish? No, it has to do with holiness. Holiness. Look at Daniel 1.

Once, in the cultural context of Canaan, you see that those things were when they went to worship. And you know that today too, if you study some culture, I've done a bit of that. You notice that, you see that maybe they want to worship on idol. No, this time, bring this food, bring this one, bring that one. And it was part of worship. He says, no, you are a different people. Abstain from that. Daniel 1:15. This was Daniel, aside from Daniel proposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with a portion of the king's meat or with the wine which they drank, because he requested the prince of the Enoch that he might not defile him. So of course, you know, Daniel is about kingdoms and worship. So Daniel himself, I mean, he said, look, I'm not going to take this.

And in verse 15. Okay, verse 15, yeah. It says, at the end of 10 days, their countenance appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all children, which did eat the portion of the king's meat. And Nezah took away the portion of the meat and the wine which they did drink and gave them pause. And he says, God gave them knowledge, skill in all learning, wisdom. And Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams. Again, it comes to worship. Nebuchadnezzar, Darius, it was about worship. So the context of the food laws had to deal with worship. Are there healthy foods? For sure, but the Bible is not a commentary on healthy foods. I saw somebody on TV talking about food and he went to the Old Testament. I said, oh, God, leave this area. This has nothing to do with health.

This is about spiritual health. Is that clear? Is that clear? So that's why Jesus says not what goes into a man's mouth that defiles him is what. What comes out. Which means that it is what they call the food that defiles them. It's what they believe the food was for that defiles them. Now, if somebody, for example, puts on tattoo and he wants us to be very different. He wants to be. He just wants to. He just wants to show, you know, rebellion and show, look this one. And you know, do something to your hair and all that. And you say, for to you, it doesn't mean that. So for you it's just to look good. But Paul says that if the person's conscience means that you have to consider it, you have to look at it.

So your holiness also comes out of love. Okay, so in studying the Old Testament, we have to know the context. The context about food is about worship idols. So in Acts 10, that's why Jesus called it traditions. You have held on to men and you have made the word of God of no effect. That is the tradition of men is the cultural context, use of those things, but it will pass away. But the word of God itself, he knew the non effect. So what's the message? The message necessarily will not be in tandem with the messenger. The messenger is the cultural context. The messenger will come and go, but the message will remain the same. We don't have the same message that we speak English today. We're in the modern world, but the message remains the same. Is that very clear?

Look at Acts 10, Verse 11. Peter's vision. He saw heaven open and a certain vessel descended from unto him. And as he had been a great sheet meet at the four corners and led down to the earth, wherein were all manner of four footed beasts of the earth, wild beasts and creeping things, and fowls of the and there came a voice to people, Peter, rise. Peter, kill and eat. He said, no, I've never eaten anything that is common or unclean. And the voice speak to him again. The second time, well, God has cleansed. Do not call common. Now, it was food that was shown in the vision, but was people. So you can see that the food is identified with the Gentiles. So he's saying that now what happened was. Notice that when they rebuked Peter in Acts 11, he went to eat.

Now, eating with the Gentiles is fellowship. Fellowship, like fellowship with all believers, is not literally taking food because he never took food in the house of Cornelius, it was fellowship. So food in their cultural context was a means of fellowship and worship. Notice that Israel did that in to. In worship. So what happened to Peter here was that he went to fellowship with. Look at Acts 11, Verse three. They went into men uncircumcised and did eat with them. Now did eat with them is not necessarily took food is fellowship. Of course, part of fellowship is taking food. But eating food symbolizes fellowship. But when people eat together, it symbolizes that they are in fellowship. Eat with the Gentiles is fellowship. So the concept of food is fellowship and worship, not dietary or. No, it's not health. It has nothing to do with health.

If you want to talk about, I'll go and say a doctor, a nutritionist or health practitioner, not the Bible. The Bible has no such comment. Is that Very clear. You know, we said many times, it's not a medical book. It's not a science book. It's not an architectural book. It's nothing of that nature. It uses human language to communicate spiritual truths. Okay. All right. So that shows you again how heavily invested the Old Testament books are in idols. Idol worship. Of course. Like we have said, Genesis is a home and house story. Is a home, a house story. A home and a house story. So we must keep reading it in that order. Look at Psalm 24 before Psalm 24. Okay. Psalm 24. On Sunday.

I did say on Wednesday as well that ends of the world and ends of the earth are technically not the same thing. They are just related. Now go to Psalm 42. Let's. Let's say Psalm 43 first. Come back Psalm 44 later. Go to Isaiah 42. Sorry. Isaiah 42. And verse 6. I the Lord had called thee in righteousness and hold thy hand and keep thee and give thee for a covenant of the people. And the same says for a light to light of the Gentiles. Now, Gentiles means nations. So just replace it with the word nations. Nations. Now when you say nations, it means every other place apart from Israel. Okay? Now, Israel being elect nation. Elect nation is meant to be the vessel or the carrier nation of God's mercy to all the other nations.

Israel itself came out of the nations in Abraham. We've done that study before. So go to Isaiah 49. And verse six. It's a light thing that thou shalt be my servant to raise up the tribes of the Jacob to restore the tribes of Israel. I'll give thee the light to the nations that thou mayest be my salvation unto the ends of the earth. The nations then the ends of the earth. Now where is the difference? Or wherein lies the difference? The nations and the phrase ends of the earth. Sorry, one second. Therefore, 48 again. One minute. Now the word world is even word table Just put. We're going to get table. TBL was pronounced as the bell Tabel. Usually it talks about people or inhabiting somewhere. So the space to be inhabited is usually also called eret. E R E T S Eret.

Look at Psalm 24. So you have world. World will best as people. World People and the activities. Tabel. People and their activities. Eret is a bigger word. It involves the people, the activities and the space. The people, the activities and the space. Eret is another word for land. Land, land. In Genesis 1:1, it's heavens, which is not one plural. And the land now it makes sense, because in the vision given to Abraham, he was shown the land. Land. And the land had people. People. What they were doing there, the people and what they were doing there will now be called the Tabel inhabitants. What they are doing, the occupation, what they are occupying will be called world. So notice that Eden is land. There is no mention of waters. I mean seas.

Sorry, we have done the study between seas and the waters of Eden. The waters of Eden is like a reformed water. Bringing out chaos from chaos will not bring the fresh water life. So Eden is land. Now so far in the studies we have said that land is salvation. Can you remember? Land is salvation in Revelation 21. Why is it salvation? Because it shows dominion over chaos. Revelation 21. I saw a new heaven and a new Earth. Is that a new temple? For the first heaven and the first earth were passed away and there was no more sea. Now notice what the sea will repair in the same context, Verse 4, God will wipe away tears from your eyes. Tears. There shall no more be death. Neither sorrow, crying or pain. The former things are passed away. There's no more sea chaos. Okay.

And he that sat upon the throne, behold, I make all things new. He said to me, write, for these words are true and faithful. It is done. I'm the alpha and Omega. Beginning is the foundation of the earth, the Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that it says the fountain of the water. So you can see there is no mercy, but there's water. Are you here because in Eden there was no sea, but there was water? All right, We've explained how those seas were. Now, by God's spirit, Genesis 1:2, you know, converted into waters of life, no more sea. This is not geographical, it's not science. It's not discussing science. It's discussing the spiritual context of the earth. Let me say this again.

One important thing I and I mentioned, I can't written well is you must know the identity of the earth. The identity of the earth must be clear to you. I know. It's good to know your own identity, who you are in Christ, who you are, the spiritual truth, the spiritual who you are and all that. But you see, you also know the identity of the earth itself. The earth has a supernatural context. So the use of sea is not antique ocean or Arctic. No, no, no. This is the spiritual context of the world. There was sea in Genesis 1, which is the waters beneath. In Genesis 2, we now have waters above because it's hidden and within the earth space. And those waters were the Waters of life.

In Revelation 22, verse 1, he showed me a pure river of water, of life, clear as proceeding from the throne of God and of the Lamb. In the midst of the street, either side of the river, there was a tree of life with manna. So that takes you back again to Eden. Look at verse three. There was no more curse. There was no mercus. There was no mercus. That is outside Eden. So outside Eden is the sea. Outside Eden is chaos. So here he says, there was no more. No more. And again, there was no more darkness, for he was the light. Okay, let's take it. There shall see his face, and his name shall be his voice. And there shall be no more night. No more. So you see, night, sea, chaos, curse, light of the sun.