Second Timothy 3 back on seated on high, verse 15. I'm going to combine two different concepts this session and move as quickly as possible. All Scripture 16 All Scriptures give my inspiration of Gospel for doctrine, reproof, correction and instruction in righteousness. Therefore, the New Testament author derives its authority from the Old Testament. He doesn't sidestep it the way we do today. He never had the privilege or the luxury of calling Genesis to Malachi Old Testament. That was the word of God to him. And the only challenge he had was bringing it to a language of his audience, which is the Greco Roman community, which was largely. I'll give you a bit of history of the Septuagint next week. The Septuagint came up because the Jews were more comfortable speaking Greek. They had just like today, many of us cannot speak our local languages.

What did you just say? If they're not careful, many things will be lost, particularly things that were said in that particular context. So the New Testament author therefore is relying on the Old Testament to interpret his text. You must give the same thing to their text. Like I finished in the last session that in the way we looked at how to w text I'm going to add to it from tomorrow's service. So what we're going to look at two things. I'll just tell you. First service is the New Covenant and the Law of Moses. The second service is why we sin and when we sin. I want to look at it from the word of God. And all the things we are going to see is how to interpret the Bible.

Again, I like to always talk about it because I don't want to get my audience to feel that there's something we are doing out of this world. It's just look at it yourself. This is how it's done. And so we said that in the gems of the methods we looked at the other time we said before you get to how to apply it, you must say how does the New Testament interpret it? How does it apply? Sorry. It's when you get to that point that you bring it to our world and the application has two fold There is the work of the Spirit, which is you. When it comes to the work of the Spirit and the Bible that has to do with bringing it into that everyday life.

That's why a good local church will teach you the work of the Holy Spirit in your life as well. However, you know. And that's why I thank God for Brother King who were able to tell us that the Spirit, this language, the Spirit and the word agree using 1 John 5:7 and the fact that the Spirit of God won't go beyond the written word. And the reason is because we know from 2nd Timothy 3, 16, 2 Peter 1:21, it's the spirit that inspired the written word. And he is faithful, he is consistent. So based on that, he inspired the use of the language.

But he's not inspiring us to be using the language, to understand Tulu language and use our own language, which means that we must use the identification unifiers, which is where we bring two worlds, where it's not likely the authors know each other, not likely people know each other and we bring them together and find out what can we identify in this world, in theology, in today's world, the same way we just look at Romans 13. Now we don't have it. We have democracy. People have asked, is democracy a Bible culture? Well, democracy was from little knowledge I have or knowledge I have, the types of Plato, Aristotle, we have democracy. And that was equally just about the Bible times. But democracy is human creation, and that's what it is.

It has nothing to do with the will of God that people vote or people agree. And that's why I told you that even in church, when we want to make decisions, when it comes to natural things, I allow popular opinions. Oh, what do you guys think? Should we use this color? That color? Even when it comes to what I wear, I don't choose it. I just say if you say it's good, it has to be lulu and all that. But when it comes to spiritual things, the lives of the members, what we emphasize, what God is telling us, it is not popular opinion. It has to be. Sometimes poor people can look at it. Usually we don't have that problem though in our leadership. I can't remember when were trying to find out something very particular about the direction the ministry is going.

And we had. We usually are on the same page. And that's something commendable we leadership that God has helped us to have. So we don't say, okay, 5 oh you5 think we should owe you too. No, that is totally absurd. Do you get it? It's absurd. There's a Bible way to choose things, supernaturally speaking, and that's what you must stick with. So to come to our world today, I'll begin to say, and this is another error because we discover that people assume that kings in the Bible is a government official today. So they use it, you know, alike and talk about prophets. We talk to the presidents and stuff like that. On not understanding the text and how to apply them in today's world to New Testament author.

We have said he takes the world of the Old Testament author and not his language which is very a thin line. You have to separate it and he brings it to his own world. All scripture past graphically all scripture everything is given by it's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction and instruction in righteousness. Let's just run through something very quick. I don't know whether that sounds out. I will start. I show. Okay, look at that. Ephesians 1 and verse. 20. He wrote in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly so raised him. That's height. So we want to look at the concept of resurrection where we have the word Egero most of the time.

Anastasia two words that use for resurrection in New Testament writers biosphere writers Ephesians 1 raised us up together raised us up. Now we have said that he takes his language from where the Old Testament raised us up. Now notice that the background is that Christ was raised up raised us up. Now Ephesians 3:10 now mentions principalities and paths in the heavenly so heavenly up raised up are seen together. Ephesians 1:3 2. Now look at Ephesians 4. He that ascended no, verse 8. When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts to it on high. Now he that ascended, what is it that he also descended first lower parts of the earth. So lower part of the earth, High part of the earth. He that ascended also ascending above, ascended far above all heavens.

So heavens high up that he might feel all things. Ephesians 6. 12. Wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in the high. So we have seen the word high, heavenly, high. Philippians 1:2. Sorry, Verse 9. Wherefore God also has highly exalted him, and given him a name that is above every name. We consider the concept of name too. I'll try and just put all that together. High Colossians 2. Having spoiled 15 principalities and powers and made a show of them, openly triumphant over them in need. Then Colossians 3 and 1. If he then be risen with Christ, seeks those things which are above where Christ sits on the right hand of God high above. Let's go to first Peter. Okay, Hebrews first Hebrews. Hebrews 1, verse 3.

Sat down on the right hand of the majesty. Because I said sat down is David right? Psalm 110, verse 1. That's Kingdom David. Sat down Hebrews 3:1. Because finally sat down. Hebrews 1:13 as well. Hebrews 3:1. Partakers of the heavenly calling. Heavenly calling. Hebrews 4:14. We have the great high priest passed onto the heavens. Jesus, the Son of God. Let's hold fast. Passed on to the heavens. Hebrews 5. Sorry. Hebrews 6, verse 19. We have an uncle of the Sobosos entered in behind the veil. Foreigners entered in. So he uses temple language for the heaven. We'll see why in a moment. Temple language for the heaven. Hebrews 8. We have such a high priest who is set on the right hand of the throne of the majesty the heavens, in Minister, verse 2 of the Sanctuary, the true tabernacle which Lord preach.

And so he uses tabernacle language. So the earth high, so the heavenly of the earth. The high of the earth. It means nine. Hebrews 9:7, the second. When the high priest alone once every year, without blood, where he offered for himself and for the errors of the people. Now he says, the Holy Ghost, this is divine, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. Hebrews 9:24. For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands. So we have moved from heavenly right hand into the tabernacle, what is called the holy place, but into heaven itself to appear in the presence of God. For us now the clear fact is that there is a place in the tabernacle called heaven.

And this gives us the parable there picture of what we are describing here. Hebrews 10. 12 Sat down on the right hand of God. Hebrews 12 and 2. I'll start from 1. So if you have been following this series, it just cuts across for you. It says, wherefore, seeing that we are encompassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, we did study where and what is the cloud of witnesses, the heavenly description. Then it says in 2 Looking unto Jesus, the often finisher of faith, who for the joy that was set before the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Hebrews 12, you have come unto 22 to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God.

Now you see why city is used for living God. Because we are seeing Cain city, remember? Aha. We are seeing living Nimrod city. We are seeing the Hebrews, Genesis 11 City, the heavenly Jerusalem to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly, to the church of the firstborn that are written in heaven and to God, the God of all, and the spirits of just men made perfect to Jesus, the mediator of the new covenant and blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of evil. So we have seen the right hand of God, the high, the heavens used together as a picture of the temple. Right? Are you here? And the tabernacle.

So first Peter 1, 1 Peter 3, talking about Jesus, verse 22, who is gone unto heaven and is sat on the right hand of God, angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him. First Peter 3, 22, first John 2:2 or 2:1. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father Jesus. Righteous is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for, but for the sins of the whole world. This presupposes again the right hand, what we call the right hand. I think that's. So we have the concept of high height. Heaven high height. So let's stick with the temple interpretation. First, that the temple has the holiest of all, which is also the heaven. We said heaven and earth with the temple.

So that's why the writer of Hebrews assumes that you know how the temple was standing and what was called the holiest of all, where the high priest would take the blood and all of that. Let's just stick with one word. The word high. High. The word shamayim. Genesis 1:1 in the Old Testament, heaven and earth, Haim is a description, the whole earth space of what is high in the earthly space. High heaven. High heaven and earth. So in Mark. Okay, no, how did I skip this one? Luke 24, Luke 24 and verse 49, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarrying the city of Jerusalem to them you will power from on high. From on high. Now, for the sake of this, I'll go to Acts 1 to see. You know, Acts 1 is basically an eyewitness account here.

And it says that in verse nine, when they have spoken these things, Jesus has been giving them the great commission. While they behold was taken up, up. And the cloud was sitting out of their sight as it looks very far toward heaven. As it went up, behold two men stood by them in white apparel. So is this a vision? Huh? So you think we are looking at it and saying, verse nine, there's not two supernatural beings. Why are you gazing up into heaven? Same Jesus which was taken up from being heaven, shall come in like manner as you have seen him go into heaven. Acts of the apostles, chapter 2 verse 33, being therefore. Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, have received from the Father of the Holy Ghost. He accepted this which you now see and hear.

David is not ascended to heavens, but he said to himself, the Lord said to my Lord, sit on my right hand. So you have ascended. So the ascension language goes on and on. Now again, it's an Old Testament phrase that we all must also understand. Let's get back to that. Jerusalem 32 were there earlier. 32 In church. So it's clear that where Satan took Jesus to was supernatural. Right? The high mountains. Right. Okay, 20, 32 and verse eight. When the most High divided to the nations. The Most High divided to the nations where the Most high. So you have the word High, where the Most High divided to the nations. When he separated the sons of Adam and set the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. That's King James, but I read to us many versions.

The new living translation says, boundaries of the people according to the number in his heavenly court. In his heavenly court. This is already in this series. I'm just repeating it. English Standard Version According to the number of the sons of God. The World Standard Bible According to the number of the sons of God they have. The Septuagint translation of Brenton's seventh translation says, number of the angels of God. Contemporary English Version says, he assigned a guardian angel to each of the nations. A guardian angel. Good News Translation says he assigned to each nation a heavenly being. Good News Translation Majority Standard Bible says he set the boundaries of the people according to the number of the sons of God. The new American Bible says it sets up the boundaries of the people after the number of the divine beings.

The next Bible, a very reliable Bible, actually says, according to the number of the heavenly assembly. The New Revised Standard Version. Please pay attention to this one. He said he fixed the boundaries of the people according to the number of the gods. The gods. The new heart in this Bible says, according to the number of the children of God. The children of God. So no doubt translations have found out that this has to be. Now, there's no argument that this is Genesis 11. Okay? So Genesis 11 shows us why we have principalities and powers, why we have supernatural beings in the nations of the earth. Now, some have argued that sons of God is what God assigned the nation of Israel. It's very porous, but it's something to think about. But in Acts 17, Paul speaking in Athens. I'm just doing a reminder for.

We've done this Already remember the Corinthians? They were worshipping the unknown God. Okay. Then Paul says in 24, God had made the world and all things therein. Wherein is the Lord of heaven and earth dwells not in temples made with hands, neither is he worshipped with men's hands, as though he needs anything. Seeing verse 25. He gives to all life and birth and all things. Look at 26. He named of one blood all nations of men, for to dwell on the face, on all the face of the earth. And I determine the times appointed before and the bounds of their habitation. So Paul says he had put boundaries. Again, that's Deuteronomy 32, verse 8. So I put boundaries in the nations of the earth. Number 23, verse 9. From the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him.

Lo, they which shall dwell alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations. So you see Israel alone, not like all the nations. So Israel is a servant nation. The other nations, he abandoned them to their practices, then chose Israel to bless the nations back into his plans and purposes. Jeremiah 33:28. Israel then shall dwell in safety alone. The Father Jacob, in the land of corn and wine, and his heavens shall dwell alone. Psalm 74 and 17. Thou hast set all the borders of the earth. Thou hast made summer and winter, Thou has set the boundaries. Better still. Micah 2 and verse 4, 5, Micah 2 and verse 5. You have no one in the assembly of the Lord to divide the land by laws, so he divides the land by an inheritance. Micah 2 and verse 5.

That's how long that shall be cast a cord by a lot in the congregation of the Lord. That congregation is a supernatural world. So let's investigate this phrase and I'll tell you why we have to look at the word high. Look at Mark. Mark, chapter two and then chapter five. That chapter five. We'll look at it better next week. Mark. Chapter one first. Now, Mark puts the first miracle of Jesus as casting out demons. And in 23 mark 1. And there was in the synagogue the man with an unclean spirit. And he cried, let us alone. What have to do with thee? Jesus of Nazareth, Thou have come to destroy us. I know who you are, the Holy One of God. I know who you are, the Holy One of God. So hold your peace and come out the Mark five. All right.

Verse 1. And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the gardenings. And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs in man with all his language is flying fool who had his dwelling among the tombs. And no man could bind him, no knock with chains, because they had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broke into pieces. No one killed him. And night and day he was in the mountains. Now, notice all this was mountains, tombs, crying and cutting himself with stones. And when he saw Jesus was quiet, he ran and washed it. Really, what he ran and worshipped is not like you were holding his hands. Actually means he fell. That's what he did.

He fell down. Boom. Then he cried a loud voice, what have I to do with thee, Jesus, son of the Most High? So when he was Most High, then he asked him, what is your name? And we are going to look at why this conversion took place. We doesn't. You don't find this kind of narrative again, you know, and there's a reason. So what is your name? Now when we say name, how was your name? That's not what he saying here. Trying to see that towards the end of this session, what is your name? Say Legion. Some people are now asking, where's your name? Okay, it's fine, but the point is, look at the word most high. Most high. And this is the reason why Mark gives us a description of where this particular person was found.

That description has to do with what happened, what was in that area. I mean, if somebody could not be tamed, it can't be that they couldn't hold him. Naturally, there's a language there that you cannot miss. So he says that by using most high goes back to those and right, very well. He situates it into, you know, God given over the nations to these supernatural beings. So where is this territory? Because we know, for example, that the territory where Israel is right, is separated from the other nations. So how come is this a territory, Is this a Jewish territory or Gentile territory? Where he could say, well, I've become. What do you want? What I need to do? Just hair. This is not like. This is not. This is not. Well, this is.

This one was given to us, you know, and just cast out the demon. We see why casting out of demon is more than people. Demons leaving people alone. So what are we going to do here? And remember very well that we looked at the Naaman story, where Naaman took the doors. Remember the land where Elisha was. When I go back to where I am, I'll no longer worship any other God but Yahweh. Which means that the Use of the land was also important. The land, as I said, the land is his rest place. All those things show you a supernatural context to even land. What have you come to do here? So he uses Most High. Now you notice that the concept of Most High is very peculiar. Let's go to Matthew 26.

There are two reasons why you can say that Jesus was crucified. One of them. Was not substantiated because eventually they found out that this was just was really the scope was too bad. Matthew 26. They tried to say that he threatened to bring down the temple. So they said to him, and look at 59. Now the chief priests and the elders and all the council sought false witness against Jesus to put him to there and found none. Though many false messes came. So you can see false fake news in a while. Say I was there. Everybody was lying. They said they had many people who said I. Why you see people, you know, there was something that somebody did one day. But the guy, what he did that day eventually wasn't right. But he pointed something out.

We were in a meeting regard, we tried to resolve an issue. So in that place we now had the majority of people accusing someone say he did it. So he said something. And the guy who was not my friend will read now he said that from my experience said the fact that we have a lot of people agreeing on something does not mean they are telling the truth. And that's just the truth. So it does not mean they are telling the truth. He said many times, you will take a wire for us to know what the truth is. At the guy, let me find out. So here they have brought witnesses and they found none. Yea, though many falsehoods came, yet found him none. At the last came two witnesses.

And they said, this fellow said, I'm able to destroy the temple and to do it in three days. And the high priest arose and said to him, answer thou nothing. What is witness against thee? Jesus heard his peace and he asked, I adjure you by the living word, tell us whether you are the Christ, the Son of God. Now Jesus said to him, watch this. He said, thou hast said. Nevertheless, I say unto thee, hereafter you shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Now this is why they eventually said, this is blasphemy. Get this guy, he has to die because of what he just said here. What is it? Coming in the clouds of heaven. This is most high language, right? Coming in the cloud of Heaven is Most High language.

There's one other text I wanted to read. One second. Okay. New parent 169 sit on the right hand of the power of God. 2169 Says, the right hand of the power of God. Mark 14. That's where I was going. Mark 14. 61. Are you Christ, the Son of the Blessed? I am. You shall see the Son of Man sitting on the right of the power coming in the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest rent his clothes and say what? Because he saw a human being and said, how clouds of heaven. Now pay attention here. A human being as coming with the clouds of heaven. Because this is the Most High language. So when that demon said, what have you come to do as son of the Most High? Most High is an Old Testament phrase. An Old Testament phrase. Let's see.

Verses 14, Verse 18. Now, many Hebrew Bibles will not use Most High is either high or most. We have just one single word. Genesis 14 is the word elion and verse 18. But to the King of Salem, what forth bread and wine. He was a priest of the Most High. Elohim. Is that clear? Then we have other Elohim, right? So Most High Elohim is the one that sits above the host of heaven. Is it making sense? Huh? So when you say Most High, are you dealing with terrible truth? Huh? All right, Professor Power, come on. All right. So when he says Christ was raised far above all prophet and power in that Old Testament language, Paul is affirming that Jesus is Yahweh. Because it's not like he was raised from the dead. Then Sarah, go up like aeroplane. No, no, no.

That he sits above the host of heaven. Genesis 14:19. Let him be Abraham of the Most High God. So every time you use Most High, you acknowledge that there are other gods, right? There are other Elohim. Verse 20. Again. So most High. Actually just one word is Elyon. Is Elyon. Which means it's a composure. You are making the comprising. When you say most, you are comparing to something highest. Genesis 14:22. The Most High God. The Most High God. They now have it used as Most Holy. Exodus 26:63. Early on is a supernatural word language used for God. Which means you have all our holes of heaven. Exodus 26 and 60 and 33. Sorry. The Holy and the most holy. The holy and the most holy. So the holy and the most holy. You know, we have heaven and heaven of heavens. Are you here?

Holy and most holy. Heaven and heaven of heavens. This is the Tabernacle Again, verse 34, Most holy place, heaven and heaven of heavens. Exodus 29 and 37. It shall be an altar. Most holy. Exodus 30, 10 and 29, most holy. Verse 36, most holy. Exodus 40, verse 10. Let's check that it's in comparison. Which means that, you know, we have the outer court, the inner core. We have the earth, the holy place and the most holy. It describes heaven of heavens. Okay, heaven and heaven of heavens. So it's describing the earth. We have said the tabernacle and the temple describes the earth. Exodus 40: and 10. Thou shalt anoint the altar of burnt offering and sanctify the altar. It shall be an alar masculine of the highest level. Leviticus chapter 2, verse 3. Again, most holy. Leviticus 2:10, Leviticus 6, 17.

So we have most holy, Most Holy Ghost. 27, Verse 28, 24, verse 9, 21, verse 22, 14, 13, 10, 17. That's Leviticus 10:12, Leviticus 6:29, 7:1:76, Leviticus 6, 25, 6, 17 and 2:10 mentioned that earlier. Now look at numbers. Numbers 4, 4 Most Holy Things. Numbers 4, 19, Most Holy Things. Numbers 18, 9, Most Holy. Numbers 18, 10, Most Holy. Now look at numbers 24, 16. So most is in comparison. They are comparing a part of the tabernacle. This is holy. This is more. This of a higher value, something. So most holy God means that there were other Elohims that. So when that demon said, we're going to look at, we're going to study it together. When he said, what have you come to do here? He was laying claim to territory. So once again, when he said, what is your name?

You must connect it together. Because names will talk about functionality. We see that an authority. So what is your name? So Numbers 24 and Verse 16. My name is Gesha. And he says, we share the words of God and knew the knowledge of the Most High. Why? Because they're talking about Balaam and the gods. The knowledge of the Most high. So Deuteronomy 32, 8, most high language relates with places in the earth and beings in the Earth. Most High. Why is it used other gods? Can we say other angels, hosts of heaven were running other places? God now called Israel out of those nations and sold Israel a land. That land is not Canaan. We said that before he's the whole earth. And then says, you know what? You are my vehicle, nation.

So while he gave other nations over to the sons of God, he didn't do that to Israel. He now started a new Nation to Abraham, so that all the nations of the earth will be blessed. That's why Melchizedek said Abraham of the Most High, God, possessor of the nations of the earth, heaven and earth. That's a territorial language. So God chose Israel with no place to take all the places. It's like the church. All right, Definitely. We are just like the church. To reach the whole world, we are called out of the world to reach the same world. Right. Where we are called out of. So Israel is just like that. The Book of Psalms, Psalm 7, 17, the name of the Lord Most High. So that most in the Hebrew is silent, is just high.

But why the English writers use most high is because Elohim or Elion, sorry, is a comparison. So they have to use a comparison most. When I say most, just like you say more most. Right? More is two. Right. Am I correct? Oh, my English is good. Which one is more? That's two. Which one is the most? That's more than two. Those of that's three. Oh, when you say I'm the best of the two, the way I write English and better. So the best means this is the height of it, right? So it's a most high. So which means that the writer of the Old Testament knows that amongst the Elohim there are grades and levels. But when it comes to Yahweh, he is the most High. There is no height above him. Is it making sense? So it's a comparative language.

Psalm 9, verse 2, the Most High. Psalm 21, verse 6, Most Blessed. Psalm 21, verse 17, Most High. Psalm 46, verse 4, Most High. Psalm 47, the Lord Most High, verse 2, Psalm 50, verse 13, the Most High. And you know that David, amongst the psalmist, he dealt a lot with other gods. That's why we said most High a lot of times. And every time Paul says he's raised up. So when you hear Jesus was raised up, the raised up is not that just came alive and walking. No, no, it's to sit above the host of heaven. That's the language, Most high. You break it down. Of course, that's the core of what we're seeing seated on high is above. You can't say above and not know what is above. It's above what principalities and powers. It's not above the governor of your state.

Your governor might even be a Christian. All right? It's about principalities and powers. So Psalm 50, verse 14. I mentioned that. Psalm 52, 26, verse 2, most high, 57, verse 2, most high. 73, Verse 11. The most high. 77, Verse 10. 78, Verse 17, 78, verse 56. It tempted the most high. Psalm 82. 6 Will come to that in a moment. Psalm 82. 6. Psalm 83. 18. We are the Most High over all the earth. Why? Because. Which means you have no territory. Is that clear? Why do other gods have territories? You have no territory. Psalm 91. One secret place of the Most High. Psalm 91, verse 9, Psalm 92. 1, Psalm 92, verse 8 and Psalm 107, verse so Most High. Look at Psalm 14. So Isaiah 14. 14. So Most High is comparing right early on to other gods.

Now, there's a New Testament writer retained that context. Yes, Seated above. Above what? All principalities pass by the gods in the nations of the earth. Yes. So a lack of understanding of this, you know, that's why people are thinking the believer's authority is to collect contracts. Oh, I collect contract. I say. I just want you to. It's mine. When I enter that room, they will even interview me. They just say, how many tons you want to supply. They just go and supply. Pick your price. Whatever price you say, yes. That's not my ministry. I don't believe for what you get it. Some Isaiah 14 that describes that connects us back to the. To the Luciferian concept of Satan. Look at what he said. Verse 13. I will ascend to heaven. That's host of heaven language.

I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. Is that very clear? Is that host of heaven good? Is that the cloud of witnesses? I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. Let's take 14 together. I will ascend above the height of the cloud. I would be like. Can you see what Mosai now means? Above would be heaven of the heavens. Above. Okay. So the Most High language shows other supernatural beings. Other supernatural beings in you is comparison. We said that to compare God, who is the uncreated Elohim. The only Elohim that was not created. One second. We heard the only Elohim that was not created. Right. Luke chapter 8, verse 28. Notice that Luke again retains the territory. And they arrived at the country of gatherings, which is over Galilee. Over and against Galilee.

All right. So this presupposes a gentile territory. Are you here? You know Galilee? You know Galilee. So this presupposes Galilee a gentile territory. And he went forth to the land and let out of the city Solomon, which had devils long time and were no clothes. He said he saw Jesus on the crowd Cried out, jesus, son of God Most High, I beseech you, torment me not. So you see why Jesus sent them out to place. So you see by saying this is Galilee, and then the demon responding by saying most High is claiming territory. Are you following what I'm saying? Allegedly so. Because in Luke 4 he said, all the kingdoms and the glory have been given to me. How well I say have been given to us. Okay, if you bow, I'll give it to you. Okay.

So the point is, territories are involved. So this particular we're going to see it next week is laying clean. It's like when Jesus said, upon this rock I build my church and the gates of hell shall not be against it. From that point, we don't talk about it there. And also factually that Jesus, the moment he said the sorry is temple, I wrote it again. That was the beginning of the end. So when we don't know what end of the world is and we cannot identify with the temple, we miss everything that's going on. So most eye language is about God amongst the gods. Is that very clear? Over the host of heaven far above. So the resurrection, like E.W. Kennan said, what did the devil see? The eyewitnesses just saw a man who physically appeared and he had the nails in his hand.

What the devil saw was a human being now sits above the host of heaven. The problem is he is also God. He sits above the host of heaven. You know, in this case, we now said, we now found a human being is now in the cloud of witnesses. He becomes a witness and this becomes a doorway for all of us to enter in. I you following what I'm saying? Look at Psalm 89. We are going back to that part of this series where we said, why did God become a human being? What did he achieve? I was just to come and pay for our sins. People will say, was God not forgiving sins before Jesus became a man? But that forgiveness was not permanent. Who told you that?

You know the funny thing about when we say things like that, when we talk about forgiveness of sins, how you now go to the psalmist, he said, he forgives all your iniquities. It's not David that said it, Is he not the one that said it? So you go back to the Old Testament to look at the same gift of righteousness and say, they didn't really have it. They didn't have what they did. This is the big deal. You get it? This is the big deal that the most High, he said, ask of me and I will give you the ethering for your possession the uttermost parts of the earth, that is, I will give everything the seed of David, the earth. So even though the earth is a resting place, it's not just a lyric of his own.

It means that we are dealing with territories that belongs to God. He says he had given them to the sons of men because we saw the narratives of disobedience and all of that. So that's the big deal. To just see what men saw as what happened from the throne to the cross to the throne is ridiculous. What did the enemy see? What did God see? What happened on Day of Pentecost? What did God see? The other guys are there some people just speaking loud and these ones are drunk. But there was clothing tongues like us on fire. Look at some 89. Sorry. And verse 5. And heaven shall praise thy wonders, O Lord, Thy faithfulness in the congregation of the saints. Who in the heavens word of heaven language can be compared to the Lord.

Who among the sons of the mighty can be likened to the Lord? This is where we get the derivative of the church from church of the firstborn Heavenly Jerusalem written in heaven. Who in the heavens. Verse 7. God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints and to be had in reverence of all them about him. O Lord, God of hosts, who is a strong God of thee, unto thy faithfulness around the body. So this is very clear to now say that the way Jesus as a man was seated far above. Thus as the Lord of hosts, yes, but as a human being. So the psalmist says, what is man? That you are mindful of him, not the Son of man, that you visit him.

He said, oh, Lord, I recognize your name is all the earth, he's your glory fill the heavens. He said, you see the stars. I said, what is man? Then the psalmist said, you made him a little lower than the head of the Hebrew versions will say for a time. And then you crowned him. That means as it were the most the one that is frail. You crowned him with glory and honor. No, I thought that he will make man, you know, have you looking big like the gibbons said, no, just made me frail. And God always reverses how we think he will pick the second as the first. You know, it just reverses everything. Then he now says, and put him over all the works of your hands. So in Genesis 1 and 2, we saw the heavens and the earth.

In Genesis 3, it was in the garden of God that he now bought that man. So Genesis 3 is the first time you see a man in the high. So when Genesis 3 is cast out and we see Ephesians 2 and 1, he is now seated there. Are you following what I'm saying here? This is it. That is it. He is now seated far above. Far above is not above. Where place go to is far above the host of heaven. That's why Paul could say that this is Paradisus, which we have called the garden. Today you will be with me, the right hand of God. Yes, Today you will be with me in the high. Today you will be with me in the heavens of heavens. Today you will be with me in the most holy place in the earth.

Today you will be with me, the most high God. What a place of authority. So in Psalm 82 I've been seeing the Most High God is a comparison. He therefore becomes incongruous. Incongruous to say that God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods. In verse 6, you are children of the Most High. That Most High already presupposes that the gods spoken here of the sons of God are the same beings. We are referring to the hosts of heaven. So Bible language of the New Testament author, he might have broken it down. Seated far above. Of course, I see Paul mix David, Moses and Genesis. Seated is a King's language. Psalm 110:1 Far above is the most high supernatural world language. All principles, you can just put them as the gods or supernatural beings or hosts of heaven.

And you are saying the same thing. So I dare say that our understanding of the Old Testament context is very important. The world has not changed. Are we here? And as I said, you know, a few weeks ago, that if we make claim that the earth is its restless, the challenge we usually have is that all these things are descriptions in many theologies of an afterlife experience. For nothing is a messy thing. But the point is, someday, when everything is done, we now be in clouds. So when we say clouds, our own clouds are rain clouds. Clouds and rain now have crown on your head. Some of you wanted to be in your village, but you couldn't get. They now give you scarf and say, worshiping the Lord. But what if you know that description of the earth space.

Now if the earth is its rest space. And Moses, you know, Moses the tabernacle, when he was going to build, said, make sure you build according to what was shown to you. So he builds God's new heaven and earth, and he builds it. And then he makes a holy place. He makes the most holy place, the outer court. Then he creates the seas describing the Genesis narrative of the earth and what is there. And he creates it. He's the most holy. What is that most holy place where the high priest and Yahweh interact? And that wasn't the first time, because in Adam, we saw Adam and Yahweh walking in the cool of the garden, cool of the day in that garden. Genesis, chapter three, verse eight.

So we therefore know that if that description is in the earth, and if what Moses was building was God's interaction with man in the earth, the thinking of an afterlife experience is false. It's an experience here. And when we read Children of Israel and the kind of interactions they had with Yahweh in absolute physicality, then we know that what is hindering us today is a belief system. Like a man. Rightly said, when you think, Kenneth Fagin said right, wrong thinking produces wrong believing and wrong believing. You say the wrong thing, I say wrong things. Because you just believe the wrong things. You just think, you know, like somebody was arguing. I went to their church to preach and I told them John 14. I don't know how I got there, but I know how I got there, actually. And the man said.

So he sat me down. He said that John 14. He said, I can see it in my father's house. I have many mansions. He said, I know. Will you explain it? He told me practically. He said, I tried to check scriptures that could, I said, but I didn't see any. So I told him, I said, what did Jesus call his father's house? He said he never thought about it. I said, let's go to John 2. That Jesus called the temple his father's house. Oh, said, that's true. So I said, now, assuming John, because John didn't know there was going to be a time that many of us will start reading from John 14. He didn't think that a sincere person can start a book on the 14th chapter. He didn't even have chapters. He said, imagine if we change in my father's house.

And we said, in the temple there are many mansions. He said, yes, it's a good purpose for you. He said, yes, okay, that. I said, very well. So if it was temple, you would have thought it was heaven? He said, yes. I said, now we are called the temple of God. I said, true, when you become temple of God? When we got born again. I see. He said, but man of God, it's going to be tough. I said, why? He said, that's our hope. I said, well, unfortunately, God will give you that hope. This is the temple. So when I asked one last question and somebody asked me even in this church, he said, so where are we going? I said, die first. Imagine you're asking that kind of question. Where are you going to?

You know, like somebody is so bothered about what will happen when he graduates. He has ready to take jump, you know, you start for the course, say, I'm just thinking. I say graduate. You don't even have my chick number. Graduate for this one you have met, put into practice, you know, some people ask questions I think are not necessary and usually I don't like answering them. A guy asked question on Facebook three days ago and I got told him, I said, I've not taught him. That's how I chased him away. I said, look, this one understand it first. By the time you understand, by the time we get to that one, you know, we go to. Where do believers go to? I just taught a few of them. When you're even looking that day, I knew we'll pause a bit.

Maybe next year I will get there, you know, you salary. Heaven is here. Heaven is here. Now let's. What do people do? Where did they go? You can't say in the grave. I said, where are they? Is he there? Somewhere else? A part of this earth where God is. So he has body double. There's a God that shows us in the world, another world where we are yet to find out the identity of this earth. We don't even know where this earth is. We just don't like it. God, we have a lot of sufferings here. Destroy this earth. After three days, I'll build it again. So we assume rapture, you know, and Jesus will just show up amending the whole thing. They said, you have come, you have come, you know.

And you see, when he was saying it, his audience could never have thought that was what he was saying. Like I mentioned, he was not even thinking. They were not even thinking he was going to die at all. Thoughtless. He was going to just show up one day and you know, in the clouds and you know, we are going all going where? So what got into the earth? The identity of the earth has a supernatural context. Heaven. Heaven is the identity of the earth, not what he said. He established it upon the waters. You can imagine that this natural space has been given dominion over chaotic waters. Then let's think. Think. We said, land is salvation. Can you remember? Land is what? Earth is salvation, redemption. Now let's think.

I submit to you that like I said over the years When Scripture is misinterpreted many times a major truth is gone. So I dare to say that I struggle to call a man a Christian who doesn't care whether the Scriptures are interpreted rightly or not. That's why we have to be very careful of those who always relate results to everything. I told you here before that interpreting Scriptures right and wrongly does not mean people poison the answers. It doesn't mean that they won't get miracles. It has nothing to do with miracles. But your worship of God, and of course to function with his plan on earth will require that you understand His Word very well. Imagine thinking of God's Word like his plan, his purpose. The word of God can't be how we get things. That is a very wrong theology.

It has to be how he wants things. Then, when we begin to describe the earth and what we have today, our thinking should not be what we will get, it should be what he will do in the earth. So the most high language is a territorial speech. So when Paul says, you are seated far above, notice that when he said that to the Corinthians church, Ephesian Church, he now released it to the preaching of the Gospel. So the connection between where we are seated and where we stay and minister is together. What did Luke say when Luke was describing Jesus sending them to the nations? Pay attention. He said he gave them power from on high. Is that territorial language? Yes. Acts 18. You shall see power come upon you to the uttermost part of the earth. And they now saw the pictorial description.

He was again raised on high. So on high is a territorial language, far above all principalities, powers, rulers of the darkness of this world. So what we didn't get today is what's the connection between ethnic rulers and supernatural beings? There's a lot of connection. Truth is, supernatural beings use authority and human authority. Because the very origin of gods in the nations is human authority, human will, human decisions. So in today's world, we can't take away authority from the supernatural world. They have to be connected. Don't forget that we said that where we find unity of purpose, culture, ethos, pursuits, there is very likely a supernatural being in view. So never think the worship of God is until you go to a shrine. You don't have that problem. We say in Abuja, Such issues. No.

Then you miss it because Corinth was like a modern city. And Paul identified the same as Coloss. We must identify to these idols. I've said that over the years, what are today's idol? We must know it. And the only way forward in our interpretation of Scripture is the identification unifiers. What unifies it? I've given you a hint. When people are bound by something, sometimes they won't know what's going on. They think, I just met people on my we share the same. We share the same. We share the same. Don't forget that God is the One who made all nations one blood. So supernatural beings always perverted. So anywhere we find unity, right? We should look for the purpose. When we discover the purpose, we will know the context. Are you here? But one thing is clear. The earth is the Lord.

All the glory must go to Him. We'll talk again on Saturday.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/