Second Timothy 3, 16. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God. Is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. And that's the Old Testament, what we call today as the Old Testament. So we ask the question, does the New Testament author retain the context of the Old Testament? The concept of the Old Testament, we said, has a supernatural worldview. A worldview that just by the phrases when you say, for example, the law of Moses, we are yet to look at that. The law of Moses. Look at Hebrews 8, 5. It says he was shown a pattern or he gave a pattern. The temple. The writer of Hebrew was talking about the building of the temple.

Because everything about the law of Moses around the temple, he said that it was a shadow or a type or let's say an example, use the word suppose of heavenly things. This is an example. Then when you look at that, it's definitely means that what we call the law of Moses is to condense the supernatural world into a physical doctrine. So the very essence of the law of Moses is the supernatural world. Everything that Moses wrote about was to bring the unseen world in what you can call a parable. Parable, parabola in the Greek. But the Hebrew, you know, calls it where we have proverbs. That's what the Hebrew is. You are using an example.

I said that in the second service that the New Testament and the Old Testament, the way they written each other was an example to demonstrate, to illustrate the supernatural world. So a core of the law of Moses is the illustration of the supernatural world using natural things. So if the New Testament books are built upon the supernatural world of the Old Testament. Okay, the question again is that does the New Testament author retain that context like we have said? And I started this in the last few services, that where the New Testament is silent. Now a basic law is where the Bible is silent, be silent, you know. And I was having this conversation, was it this morning. And we're talking about myself some friends where it's about time. We're boarding to come back to Lagos.

So we're now talking about today's issues that could never have been seen by Paul. Now imagine if you told Paul that, oh, I'm in Abuja now and we're coming to Lagos. Paul will say, oh, by the power of the Holy Spirit that you think that angel would be killed. No, no, I'm coming by. Yeah, I was saying that there are things that for example, Paul didn't think about. Paul didn't know anything called ivf. He didn't Know those kind of things. He could have transgender, you know, of course you can bring that under other things, you know. So we must be able to say, okay, that's why. Remember when we looked at the eight gems of study? Seven. Eventually. Eight. Eventually. Sorry, seven. We said the first one is that find the grammatical context. Look at the Bible as a text.

Find grammatical context, the grammatical structure. Number two. Number three, we said, what is the grammar? It's not as English as you think. They will say that. What is it? Interpreting a text usually is talking about another text. Even Genesis is talking about Exodus. The background of Genesis is Exodus. The background of Exodus is Genesis. They interrelate. You must read them together. Then we now said that, you know, having done that, what is theology there? You see, the step by step that I gave you is so important. What's theology there now? What does the New Testament say about it? Now that's very critical because you must find out how the New Testament interprets the Old Testament. You need that method to go into the mind of Paul, to interpret how Paul interpreted a writer from another world who did not foresee his own present world.

But there's a supernatural author, we have said, who in his providence provides his word ahead of time. So whilst we might not readily see those things transgender, for example, one of the major arguments of those who speak about gay homosexuality is the fact that when you look at the academic. We've done this study before and that's why we brought out the book, Excuse me, passed without the question. And I think we're going to have part two. I think the title is going. Pastor, I still have a question. I still have a question. That is the first one is not solving I was asking. So when I say those words to my friends, say, that's tough. Say, it's not really tough. You just need to know how the Old Testament was interpreted.

When you see it that same way, you will be able to take from the lips of Paul answers to these problems. It's like when Paul talks about idols in Colossi in Corinth, they are talking about basically Hud de Leon. That's what Hude Leon, Theo de Leon. You see it within the concept of worship. But by the time you look at how they interpreted idols, because in the time of Moses, there was one being the blessed. I don't wash it. By the time we got to Paul, the world had changed. Things were more modern. Now, if you know how Paul was able to read the scriptures together, then you will also come today's world and say this is what it is today, you know, and begin to.

So our ability to know how the New Testament writer or author interpreted the Old Testament is very critical. That's why it becomes counterproductive when we say the Old Testament is gone. We are under the New Testament all those phrases that really have no particular direction. But like we said earlier on today in the service, the first and second service, that the Old Testament was used for teaching Romans 15:14, 4, sorry said the things written at four times are for doctrine. And in that doctrine, we said it follows what we call topos pattern. And we develop the concept of motif. Motif is actually a literary word. It's not something strange, not a revelational word, just a motif that is follow the pattern. And we said oftentimes that what we usually call prophecies.

You notice that the person who is speaking did not intend that he was talking about Jesus. No. And this morning we looked at. I'm going to write more Genesis 3:15, the seed of the woman, the seed of the serpent, that when Eve and Adam heard that including the serpent, they were not thinking about Jesus. And if you took that scripture to Abraham, he wasn't thinking about Jesus. If you took it to David up till Isaiah, you're not thinking about Jesus because there are. Was used for a community of people, offspring, family, a compound word, a collective noun. So it couldn't have been talking about. That's why when Paul as it were. When you see something like this is the closest is Romans 16:20. He's talking to the church in Rome and says the God of peace will soon cross Satan under your feet.

And people usually think that a scripture, for example, let me give you one. And when he says. And in fact, when you look at the. This is another because I'm going to explain it a bit better. When you see how the Septuagint Greek and you see how they use that the word cross and the word you know, you have Psalm 110, verse 1. The Lord said to my Lord, sit around till I make all your enemies your footstool. Footstool and crush are two different things. They are not the same words. So like David is not reading Genesis 3:15. When it goes to some, David is talking like an army commander, a king, okay? But what we have in Genesis 3:15 is a seed, a particular race.

That's why if at all you are going to look at Genesis 3:15, what will come to your mind will be Matthew 23:23, you, brood of serpents, Matthew 3:7, which was said by John the Baptist, Mark 22:23, Jesus said it, which is you generation. So when he says seed is generation. So that scripture is not as messianic as it has been used. And I deliberately did that in the second service so that you know that it's the same way we misinterpret things like, okay, what is sin, what is this one? What's forgiveness of sins, and all that. So the Old Testament was doctrine. If something is doctrine in Ephesus doctrine in Thessalonica, it ought to be doctrine. Now the point is, how was it used as doctrine? That is what we should be labor or labor around and find out.

So we have said that does the New Testament author retain the context. Now what is old? We have said what is old is a cultural context. The cultural context is the Old Testament context of the books of the New Testament. And the cultural context is permissive, accommodating, progressive. What do you mean by progressive? Culture has been progressive. The culture has been progressive. You know, is that today we call kings in Yoruba land kabiesi, kabi means kabios, which means somebody that cannot be quite questioned because back then kings are meant to look like deities. I remember when were doing my dad's funeral, showing me where we're going to bury him. So he said we should go and look at the burial site. He said this burial site has been kept for about 600 years or something like that.

So they said, they now told me that your great grandfather somewhere there you go and say, I said, for what is there? They said this place said, because we don't believe they have died. They don't say kings died, they just say that they have transitioned somebody that I buried. But that was the belief. So. But you know, as today, you can't say you are curious, you can't be questioned. It's local government chairman that will do it. Look at Gobet Chapman. So you can see that even the use of king has changed. So culture is in transition all the time because it's man made. Same way that when brother Hagin will tell us that revelation knowledge is progressing, which means that the same way culture changed over time, he used what was available part time.

But we now go to the culture of the new creation, which is neither Jewish nor Jew nor gentile. And that culture is the culture of the spirit. Okay, so what is old in the Old Testament is the cultural context, not the instructions. So we must, however, very importantly, we must yet pass through the cultural context before we get to the message itself. So we must know the language. One important thing is that the language. Now, I'll mention this now and I'll just take notes. I hope on Saturday I'll get into it. I've never been able to get into this idol thing because I need to do some background that we have not done yet. Now, there are two ways to read Genesis. The book of Genesis.

The way many people think about the book of Genesis was that it was the first book ever written in this world that, you know, before time began, there was a book called Genesis 1 and 2. Now, the date line of the book of Genesis shows that there were other books in circulation. Some of them are legends today, some of them are myths, but they were in circulation theories. Now, if there were other books in circulation, the Bible is not the first book. There were many books before the Bible. There are many cultural cultures that existed before Israel was formed. So that means that if there was now a book written amidst other books. Listen very well. It means that Genesis, particularly Genesis, not just Genesis, but let's say Genesis is what you can call a polemic.

P O L E M I C. A polemic is a counter argument, which means you are saying this is not true. Like an attempt, as it were, to correct an impression. Now, if, for example, you are doing a polemic, it means that it's a counter argument. That is why Genesis 1, that audience knew that when it says, let us make man in our own selim, that audience knew that there were other selims. So it's a counter. A counter argument. Okay? While the Salems were supposed to be figurines or plastered, you know, images of an unseen God, he says, no, man is my own. So the polemic is that God is building while all those other deities which we have found in history are picking locations and territories. God is saying, the whole earth is my dwelling place. So it's a polemic in itself.

If you understand that, then something about polemic is that many times to know what is being argued against, you may have to consult to know what is being said. Sorry, you may, because of an argument, you may have to consult what is being argued against to even understand definitions. Someone told me that I saw the story of Noah in one legend like that. I said, because the story of Noah and the flood in Scripture was a polemic, you will see another story like that. It's God saying, this is not true. This is the truth. So that's what I saw. This of the world is in different civilizations. So. And something common is that all the counter Arguments are showing that the whole world is a supernatural place. The whole world. We did a bit in the second session here.

The whole world is a supernatural place. Every one of those materials agrees with that. So see the Bible. That's why it's very unfair when you think the Bible is the only. Was the only book. Then when you hear slavery, as though slavery was started by the Bible. When you hear maybe gender, something says the Bible. No, the Bible rather is the intervention in what already exists among humans. So the Old Testament writer's language is heavily supernatural. Heavily. Let me say this. If you just understand the grammar of the Old Testament writer, and that's where you stopped, you have missed what they are saying. The grammar is from culture. So if the culture is supernatural, that grammar itself points to the supernatural. Are you here? Are you following this? That grammar itself is supernatural. Oh, sorry. That grammar points to the supernatural.

And this is why when the New Testament writer seems to use Old Testament language, don't forget that if you start in Jesus teaching meeting, what you will have is the Old Testament. That's what you will be reading. So which means that they use their language. Look at Matthew 24 again, This is why reducing, just simply describing, I mean the work of Jesus on the cross to the throne as just. He went from the cross to the throne. He died for us and he took his blood to heaven. You know, and that picture of propitiation that was done within the Reformation era, that just pointed to God. The way he thought is like justice. Justice means that a sinner must go to hell. Just will be the character of the judge who must ensure justice is done.

Then you now have what you can call mercy and compassion, which is also justice. Right? Where you help the helpless. Because when you help the helpless and the needy and the poor, it's also justice. And you grant it to the sinner. Okay? And the sinner receives it. How do you grant it to the sinner? Is when someone has mercy. How does he have mercy? Is by providing what the just judge requires. They say what the just judge requires. The wages of sin is death. Romans 6:23, the gift of God, eternal life. So he now has to die the death so that there is justice for you. This is a thinking system. Now the problem with that theology is that it was not in the minds of the writers of the Bible. It's a theology that came from a worldview that came years after.

It becomes fun because you cannot modernize Bible. The Bible is in ancient context. So justice you. Then somebody says they now ask a Question someone saying, well, you know, and there was this story and I asked it. I asked someone one day, you know, said, you know, Jesus took the death, that we should have died, that we ought to have gone to jail. And so, because we are going to. Then I asked the question. I said, tell me a justice system in the whole world where they will say, this person would have committed the crime, but somebody has offered to go there for him. Say, is there anywhere. They said, really there's none. So who created that system became porous. Because the essence of asking that guy to go to jail is because we don't want evil in the land.

So say, okay, since you don't want to go. I don't want to go for me, but you will still keep doing evil. So that itself is not justice. Are you following what I'm saying here? So that theory becomes punctual very easily because the proponents definitely are imposing a modern thought that doesn't even have a basis. And because we are fixated on that nature of the death of Jesus, we are thinking in judicial terms. Just God, justice, equity, mercy, you know, all that. We just bring it within. Like God has to conform to our judicial system. Yet the context of the Old Testament writer was supernatural world. In Genesis 3, the problem was from a supernatural context. The nakash is a supernatural being. The garden is a supernatural place. The tree of life supernatural place. Knowledge of good and evil supernatural place.

The cherubims that guarded the tree of life, supernatural beings that pointed the way to supernatural beings. So you now look at it the ground supernatural. So how do we want to explain the death and sufferings of Christ and remove that context? A big problem. If the earth is his rest place, Genesis 1 to Genesis 2, verse 1 and 2, and he is Spirit. Genesis 1:2 is a wind unseen being. Genesis 3:8, then that means that this earth for this earth to be, you know, we have this thing about the earth is for the. For natural things. So we now say that to have access to the earth, and I teach that because I have the word of faith roots, God has to. You have to get permission to be a human being to have access to the earth and all that.

It has a lot of exceptions that you can puncture very easily. If you take it from Genesis that the earth is his resting place and it's an unseen being. It therefore means that the earth has a supernatural origin itself. So there's no such thing as okay, God requires a man to grant him permission to walk in the earth. No, if you know the origins of the earth, that argument is flawed. So I've been said that that is their language, that when they are talking around the spiritual world. They don't make as much distinction like we do today. That's natural. That's supernatural. No. So going back what I was saying, that fixation about the debt it paid, the debt that I could not pay. So of course by the time you are done with that, the destination has to be outside the earth. Heaven.

So dichotomy has come. Heaven. So God is meant to be in a place outside the earth. When Paul was Talking in Acts 17 to those guys in mass, he said he is not far from every one of us. In him we live in him, we move and have our being that takes. He said he will not. He doesn't dwell in temples made with human hands, he said, because he created the heavens and the earth. So usually when we hear that the human hands, what we are thinking is that God does not dwell in the earth because is it human hands like he did here? What he is saying there is that he made this earth as his resting place. This earth was not made by human hands. So when Moses made a temple with human hands, that is the contrast.

God has made the earth his restless. This is heaven and earth. So the death of Jesus being discussed as now, is there a judicial fact to it? We will look at it. I intend to go salvation again this year. I was trying to push it next year, but we'll do it just maybe a few sessions, just to clear some of these things. Now, if it is not a judicial thinking and it's the supernatural. So we couldn't. Many people don't have questions, okay? Don't have answers to. So what happened in three days? In those three days, what happened on the cross? What happened in those three days until the demands of justice was met? So I don't understand. Someone said what happened is that when now went, when he died, he kept putting all the sins of the world.

So it took three days to empty it. I said, did they include the whole 20, 23? That may include nine. Nine days. Things have moved up. Things have changed. Though you haven't had more seeds, you know, they know what happened is this, you know, then put all the source of the world on him. That means it was somewhere. God put it somewhere he had the ging sauce. He said, I'm not against you, I'm going to put on Jesus. That means everybody is saved. No, no, no. You still have to believe after we are ready. This is water. So you see that is so flawed. It has an application, but it must be understood. Now coming back to this. So what happened in the three days? The three days are so important that if you miss it. I remember somebody was telling me those are.

These are blackberries. So we're not saying that. That. Do you believe in all that thing that Kenneth teacher said? What? Said that say, I'm surprised that someone like you can be Kenneth again. Bo, this was 2011 or so. I said, what is the problem? He said, because the guy is. I think he has changed because I saw one thing said recently that he doesn't think like that again. He doesn't abuse people. I hope so. So I said, look, how can you believe that Jesus. Jesus died spiritually. I said, okay, what happened to him? He said, he died. I said, I know he died. We both know he died, your dad. He said, yes, that because he's God. That is why that death mattered a lot. So I'm agreed. Let's leave it at that. It didn't matter why Three days.

He said the three days for justice to be. I said, okay, where did he go? He said he went to the grave. I know. Is it the sepulcher? He said, no. Where? He said, don't tell me that healthy. No, don't tell me where to. I said, I've not said anything. Where did he go? He said he went to the place where Old Testament saints went to. I said, where is it? Can't you just say it? He said, is it heavenly abode but not in heaven when you have abused people? I now find out who are you abusing our lives. You know when you are. When you want to take something that doesn't belong to you. The kind of arguments rubbish you'll be finding things when you have said something that is not true. Where did he go?

That aspect, the death of Jesus has affected most of theology. Of course it now creates heaven as outside the earth. So we are thinking that way. People will now die. They will now go. So the death of Jesus died to go to a place. Meanwhile, when you. That's why we got Leviticus wrong. We said so we think that when the writer of people was saying that the blood of bulls and goats cannot take away sin, that when they were all going to Levi the Levites, sorry, Aaron and the priesthood that. Do you think the average Israelite was expecting the blood of bulls and ghost sticky racing? No, they also did not think that way. Their sins were covered when New Testament is blotted out. They now say, which text are you using? You now go to Psalms.

You say, he has blotted out our transgressions. You go to Isaiah 43. Is that what the text you are reading? No, no. But you said under that Testament. It was under. You missed it totally. Because we often think that audience was so dense. How can they think that the blood of bulls and goats will take away their sins? They didn't think that way. So that supernatural context is so critical. It's not the only context of writing of Scripture. We shouldn't again get into the same error, but a major one. So in Matthew 24, if we don't read the Old Testament, this becomes very broad in our thinking. Matthew 24:29. Immediately after one of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give a light.

And the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of heavens, of the heavens shall be shaken. Then look at 30. Then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven. I'll take on this in the second session. And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn. They shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory. Now, if you don't read the Old Testament, you will be looking like Leucosite. What is it like? The sun will be darkened and the moon and the stars will fall. Then he says, the powers of heaven, which is pure Old Testament language, referring to the Old Testament language of the host of heaven. Now why would Jesus say this? Because his death and resurrection had to do with the host of heaven.

Then he talks about the Son of Man and the clouds. In the second service, we looked at the cloud that took Jesus out of their sight. It's an Old Testament language. It's not the cloud that drops rain. It's the Old Testament language I showed in Psalm 88, verse 4 to 7 was, who in the clouds is like unto you among the sons of the mighty? Psalm 88. So what language is this? Matthew 26 Again, when he was speaking to Cephas the high priest. Verse 64, Thou hast said, Nevertheless I say unto you, ere shall you see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power coming in the clouds of heaven. Cloud also is for hosts is a word for. Is a group word, a collective noun. We call it, you know, a compound word. Host of heaven.

Again, when we read the Old Testament, look at Acts 2. The Old Testament explains this to us. Acts 2. 19. Why is this important? Because right in the book of Acts, he says, it shall come to pass. Verse 17. In the last day, saith God, I'll pour out of my spirit upon all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. Your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dreams upon and on. My servants and my handmaidens are poured in those days of my spirit, and they shall prophesy. Look at 19. I will show wonders. I'm sure when you explain speaking in tongues, I get to this one. You just run quick. You don't say, what is this wonders? Just stay around, attend more services. He says, I'll show wonders.

In heaven above signs, in the earth beneath blood and fire and vapors of smoke. Earth believes Old Testament language. Then he says, the sun shall be turned into darkness and the moon into blood. You think he's talking natural thinking the moon into blood. Look at Isaiah 13. So does it appear that New Testament writer is using Old Testament language? He is. Isaiah 13. Let me show you something else. Isaiah 13. Put your hands there and go to second Peter. Second Peter. I know we've been in this 1:3, but the day of the Lord, verse 10 will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, he says, and the earth also, and the works that are therein shall be burnt up. The elements.

There is a swastoitia elemental spirit. Okay, look at 12. Looking for an hastening for the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved, and the elements now those elements of hosts. So you can see that Peter retains that language. So Isaiah 13, verse 9. The day of the Lord cometh cruel, bold, and wrath, and first anger to lay the land desolate, and it shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it. For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light. The sun shall be darkened in its going, and the moon shall not cause our light to shine. Isaiah 5:30. Watch this. In that day they shall roar against them like the rearing of the sea.

If one looks to the land, behold darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof. Isaiah 24. 21 Shall come to pass in that day that the LORD shall punish look at that. Shall punish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings on the earth upon the earth shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison. We're coming to this later, after Many days they shall be visited, and the moon shall be confounded and the sun ashamed, when the Lord of hosts shall reign in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem and before his ancients gloriously. So you are seeing that narrative. Ezekiel 32. And verse seven. Let's even start from verse six.

I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest to the mountains, and the rivers shall be full of thee. And when I shall put thee out, Ezekiel 32:7, I'll cover the heaven and meet the stars there of dark I will cover the sun with a cloud. And he says, the moon shall not give our light. All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord. Now let me just say this in case you're talking about nature. Do you know in China now they started, they've created his son, their own sun. So this is about taking away the sun. The who will give you son? Air conditioner in the room. So this can't be natural things. In the law of Moses, this is interpreting supernatural things.

So obviously this is a supernatural language using cosmetology. Look at Joel 2. We are read Joel 2 already. Anyway, in Acts 2d 2, 30, I will show wonders in the heavens and the earth. Blood and fire are pillars of smoke. Now this usually is said when God wants to rescue his people. You will find this language is in Jeremiah, Ezekiel, Isaiah is in Habakkuk, which when he wants to rescue his people. Also when there is judgment against disobedience, you are going to see these signs. So there is no judgment without the supernatural world and there is no redemption. There is no judgment and there is no redemption. This is virtual world language. It shall come to pass. Verse 31. Again, the sons, of course, you know what happened in Joel.

He said they should cry, Said it will give them over to bondage, it will give them over to people to take over their position and all that. So when he now said, look, I will redeem you, he now says, I will. Afterwards I'll pour out of my spirit. Supernatural prophesied. He now said to them that I will judge the sun, moon and earth. Which means that in every such captivity, I've told you before, many of the wars in the Old Testament were spiritual. The problem is that we have read them in modern terms. So we see genocide and all those things. They were spiritual, supernatural beings were involved. And you will see this pattern in a moment. There is a pattern to it. There is a pattern to it. Go to Exodus 10. So let's say a few things quickly.

Every time there is captivity or many times in the Old Testament, we will find supernatural being involved. Why? Because the earth is a place of worship. Either you worship Yahweh or you worship what he has created. So anytime we find captivity, we'll find supernatural beings involved. And when we find a rescue of the captives, supernatural beings are also involved. Look at the Exodus. Exodus 10. All the plagues were clashed with the gods. All the plagues, not most of the. The plagues. Exodus 10:21. The Lord said to Moses, stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt. Even darkness which may be felt. Then Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven, and there was a thick darkness. The land of Egypt. Three days. Now you assume that what happened was that Upnepa Phcn took light.

No, back up a little bit to Exodus 7, verse 19. Remember, we read. We read Acts 2, said shall be turned into blood, right? You see where the language came from? Acts 2. Take thy rod and stretch thy hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams, upon their rivers, upon their ponds, and upon their pools of water, that they may become blood. He says, throughout all the land of Egypt, both vessels of wood and vessels of stone. So notice where the concept of turned into blood. Look at chapter nine, verse 22. Stretch forth your hand toward heaven. Now pause in Genesis. Heaven and the waters are what? Supernatural life, right? Don't forget it. The waters. All right. Chaos. Heavens. So what's going on? What is going on here is supernatural. It's not natural. You think it's. Now, can it have effect in natural?

Oh, sure. But what is going on here is supernatural. Look at Malachi 4. So that language of sun, moon and stars that we are reading in Acts 2 or Matthew 24 and Isaiah was taken from the Exodus. It's from the Exodus that motif was now used by Every writer. Malachi 4 1. Behold, the day cometh, thou shalt burn as an open and all proud Yea, all that do wickedly shall be stubbled. The day shall come shall burn them up, saith the Lord God. It shall leave them neither root nor branch. I say to you that fear shall the Son. Now watch this. I say unto you that fear my name. Shall the Son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings, and shall go forth and grow up as a cow and a store.

And you shall tread down the wicked, for the shall be Satan. And so repeat in the day that be, saith the Lord of hosts. Remember, he says the law of Moses, my servant unto him in order for Israel with the statutes and judgments. So which means Barakah is saying, go back to the Exodus. You read and understand this meaning the Son of righteousness. So look at Psalm 78. So when there is judgment, we find supernatural beat. Psalm 78. And verse 49. This is the same. Pay attention here. This is the Exodus story. Aside from 41.

It says, he that turned back and tempted God and limited the Holy One of Israel, he remembered not in the in his hand or the day when he divided from the enemy, how he had wrought his signs in Egypt and his wonders in the field of Zoan, and turned their rivers to blood, and their floods they could not drink. He sent divers sorts of fires amongst them and devoured them, and the frogs which destroyed them, he gave also their increase to the caterpillar and their labour unto the locust. He destroyed their vines with ale and their sycomore trees with frost. He gave up their cattle to the ale and their flocks to hot thunderbolts. Let's take 49 slowly. So I want us to read it together.

He cast upon them the first of the anger, wrought indignation and trouble by sending what can you see it? So all those things were supernatural. Now the word sending there will appear. Like I'm going to make an assumption now that you are members of this church. The word sending is the word Mish salad M I S H L A C H A T H It's taken from a popular word we have explained. If you read his worth. We explained this word severally. Shalach S H A L A C H It means to give over. When you just look away, when you are not doing something, but you're not doing it as judgment. It's like you have done something by not doing something. We've explained that it allowed. So what we saw in Egypt were supernatural beings. Now look at Psalm 1: Ram 5.

It lets us see that this was the supernatural world. Psalm 105. Sorry. And verse 28, he okay, let me type 26. He sent Moses and his servant. His servant. Sorry. And Aaron, whom he had chosen, and he showed his signs among them and wonders in the land of Am. He sent darkness and made dark. They rebelled against his word. Then he says, he turned their waters into blood and slew their fish. So again there's a description about what happened in Egypt. But look at verse 39. He spread a cloud for a covering and a fire for a to give light in the night Hebrew asked and they brought quails and satisfied them with the bread of heaven. So what we are reading in Egypt was supernatural. Now look at Exodus 15, the Red Sea narrative. Again. We read this before. Verse one.

I will sing unto the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously the horse and his rider as he throw into the sea. The Lord is my strength. He says the horse and his rider, which is singular. Pharaoh came with an army, says the horse and his rider. God is my strength and sons he's become. My salvation is my God, and I'll prepare him and appreciation of my father's God, and I'll exalt him. Lord is the man of war. Lord is named. Pharaoh's chariots and his host are they cast into the sea. His chosen captains also were torn in the Red Sea. The belt have covered them. They sank in the bottom as a stone. Then he says, thy right hand, O Lord, has become glorious in power. Thy right hand, O Lord, has dashed in pieces the enemy.

Now when you see God back up an army in the Old Testament against another nation is because they are also backed up. Always get that. It's not regular warfare. Are you getting this? It's not so he says, has the enemy. Then watch this. In the greatness of thy Excellency, thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee, sent forth their wrath, which consumed them as stubble with the blast of their nostrils. The waters were gathered together. The flood stood upright as a heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea. The enemy said, I'll pursue, I'll overtake, I'll divide the spoil. My Lord shall be satisfied. Upon them I'll draw my sword, My hand shall destroy them. Thou didst blow with thy wind. The sea covered them. They sank as a lead in the mighty waters.

Now let's read verse 11 together. Who is like unto thee, O Lord? Amongst the gods. So that thing happened. Amongst who? The gods. That's the background. So it's not a regular warfare. Where there's judgment, there's supernatural beings. Where there's redemption, there's supernatural beings. Remember what he said to Pharaoh. He said, moses, look at Exodus 4, Verse 22. Thou shalt say to Pharaoh, thus said the Lord Israel is my son, my firstborn. And I say to you, let my son go, that he may serve me, he may worship me. So that conversation was about worship. Exodus 5. Thus said the Lord God of Israel, let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness. It's about Worship. So when he put Israel in bondage.

If you, if you now pause a bit, you remember that I explained this to us, that the same thing happened to Daniel, I mean the three Hebrew boys, that red furnace that burned with fire was now used to typify what happened to Israel in Egypt. It's also a burning furnace. So the burning furnace in Daniel was used to typify what happened in Egypt. It's about worship. What he tell the Hebrew boys to worship. What was Daniel 2? Worship. So at the core of scripture is worship. Never forget this. This earth is a place of worship. There is no one not worshipping something because human beings were created to worship. That's what they were created for. So here, let's look at something again. So it was a class of gods. Yeah, a clash amongst gods who is like unto you.

That's why it's called Lord of hosts amongst the gods, who is like you. So if that's the pattern of rescue and redemption in scripture. So when Zechariah was talking about, he has sent visitation to his people, he's going back to Egypt. Redemption. All those words. Redemption, apolotrosis. All those terms are Exodus language. So the New Testament writer is using those words. Firstborn, firstborn, redemption, firstborn, redemption. All those terminology. Lasterian propitiation. You have those words. They are all Exodus terms. Does he retain the context? Yes. The supernatural world was involved. That's why in the death of Jesus. I'm sorry, in the birth of Jesus. What was the evidence? The host of heaven, A bright light. The star that led the magi. The wise men was not the stars. They are looking at anyone can. That's time. Let's go.

No, I mean Herod would have seen it. It was a supernatural world. They were led by a supernatural being to see where the Messiah was after two years. So even the incarnation had such evidence. Are you here? Look at Joshua 10. Let me give you a proposal. Proposal? A proposition. Sorry. In Joshua 10, Then spake Joshua to the Lord in the day when the Lord delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel. And he said, in the sight of Israel, sun stands still upon Gibeon. And said moon in the valley of Ajalon. Let me ask you, when did he ever see son move at the same place? If you see sun is during the day. Are you so sun and moon here? Do you think that's what. What you are? What we see every day is what he's talking about. Look at this.

The sun stood still, the moon stayed. Unto the people that have bent themselves upon their enemies. What has happened? What do you think is going on here? It took spiritual authority. It stayed until they won. Is it for them to see you? To shoot you? No. Are you learning something here? Look at verse 11. I even start from verse 10. The mountains saw thee and they trembled. The overflow of the waters passed by the deep uttered his voice lifted up his hands on high. The sun the moon stood still in the habitation at the light of their arrows they went and the shining of their glittering sphere. So when you see sun and moon used together. Have you ever. The sun and moon don't stay together at the time of the day. That is a supernatural world. Is that very clear?

So those wars were not conventional wars. They were not to situate those wars as to these wars are ridiculous. That's ridiculous Bible interpretation. They're supernatural things. So from the Exodus where the whole Bible when it comes to warfare the Bible the whole scripture fixes its narratives from the Exodus. It was a war, a clash of supernatural beings. That's what it was the Exodus Warfare therefore was fixated on the supernatural world. That mustn't be Bishop. Let's start from the bondage. The worship in the bondage, the rescue in the bondage and the judgment on the oppressors. When you take care of the oppressors, you take care of the supernatural beings. Because heaven and earth work together. Which means the supernatural and the natural. But I would rather this is my own thinking and I want to say this in the way I may change it tomorrow.

I would rather see the natural guy. I said no, the actually the world is supernatural. That in the natural we are only finding expressions of the supernatural. That's what we are seeing. Because if we founded the earth upon the seas, then we should think. We should think. That's why people like brother Hagin will say that man is a spirit. How will you say a spiritual being. Man is a spiritual being. In E.W. Kenyans he the man of the heart. One of the things they said there is a man that science has not seen. They call it the subconscious mind. He said is the hidden man of the heart. So if there is a man in the physical body that no amount of science discovery can see, then I dare say that the natural only gives expression to the supernatural world.

There's a man you can't see. There's a man you can't see. Peter will call it first Peter three, four, the hidden man. Kryptos of the heart. So if Bible pattern is clear on the supernatural world look at something. Look at Psalm 88 again. 89. Actually, the Septim has Psalm 88. Remember that who is like unto me amongst the gods. And you notice that in the Exodus we have some clouds. Clouds, Right, clouds. Good. Psalm 88. I put this in your notes. The death of Jesus from the incarnation to the resurrection is a new Exodus. It's a renewed Exodus. So right from now, let me ask you, which king suddenly becomes uncomfortable? They say, a boy has been born and he's 2 years old. And those Christians came to him and said, want to go and worship the King of Israel?

He's in prophecy and all that. And they said, he's 2 years old. Listen very well. Immediately Error became upset. Who did he call when they said he saw the star? Let's go to it. Matthew 2. You know, you have asked a lot of Christmas stories. You can't ask this part. Matthew 2. Who did he call in verse 4? He gathered the chief priests and scribes of the people and demanded of them when Christ should be born. He gathered people that should know the supernatural world. When would he be born? Sorry. And they said to him, in Bethlehem of Judah, for thus written by the prophet. And they gave him scripture. Then he called the wise men. He said, guys, he said a cry of dungeon. When the time the star appeared. The star, the star. The star that he never saw.

They said to him, and he said to them, go and start the day for the young child. When you have found him, bring him word that I may come and worship him also. And they went. So they saw the star, they rejoice, joy. They went to the house of Jesus. And he vowed. The next day the angel of the lord appeared to them. 13 He said, Look, don't go back. I mean, for 12 lost the vision in the dream and said, don't go back. Go to your country. And he went. Do you think that they just left like that? Your spiritual shielded. So the things happening here had a supernatural context to it. They now left. What now happened? Verse 15. I was there until the death of Herod. Am I spoken of? Look at verse 16.

Then Herod, when he saw he was mocked of the wise men, was exceedingly wroth, and slew all the children that were in Jerusalem, and in the course thereof, two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently required of the wise men who did this in Scripture? Herod. And who escaped? Moses. And Jesus is a new Moses. A renewed ministry of Moses. So no doubt in the death of Jesus, that sudden upset is supernatural. How was he? Remember when they came with soldiers to Jesus and in Luke 22:53, he said, this is your hour and the power of darkness. So the death of Jesus. And from his incarnation, John 1:14, the Word became flesh. Tabernacle, Exodus, language. And dwelt among us. Tabernacle, Exodus, language. Flesh. From his incarnation to his resurrection. What is his death?

He said, this is the blood of the new covenant. The blood. And he's talking from Exodus. He called him the Lamb of God. Exodus. The blood or sprinkling? Exodus, Exodus. A shedding of blood. The Exodus language. So if it is a new Exodus, it cannot but follow the pattern of the book of Exodus, which is a supernatural world. The land they were taken to was supernatural. The rescue was supernatural. Did it have a man's side to it? Yes. Just like Jesus, death on the cross had a man's side to it, an earthly, natural side. When he rose from the sun physically. But like I've always told you, what they saw physically was when he rose from the dead. They saw Jesus physically. He could touch his blood and body and all that. But what rose from the dead is the body of Christ.

There was a supernatural war to the resurrection. Matthew said some people woke up from the graves and went town. When they saw him after the resurrection, in what we call the Ascension, they saw a cloud. What's a cloud in Scripture? Another host. If you remove that context from the death and burial of Jesus and resurrection, you missed it. There's one. Ew. Kenneth said. There's what man saw. There's what God saw and what the devil saw. Psalm 88. 89. Sorry. When you read in King James and all that, you have Psalm 89, but this is 88. The heavens will confess your wondrous things, o Lord, verse 6. Your truth in the assembly of the holy ones. For who in the clouds? Now King James will say, who in the heavens. Right, Right. But the sacrifice. Who in the clouds shall be likened unto you?

Who will be likened to the Lord among the sons of God? Was that what we read in Exodus 15? Who is like unto thee, O Lord, amongst the gods, who is like you? So the Exodus was a spiritual warfare. I think one of. I think is the faith of God. The faith. These are God. We need to explain that the Exodus was spiritual warfare. It's not regular war. It's spiritual warfare. People often went to war with the backing of their gods. That's what the war was about. It's not regular warfare like we do today. So let's backtrack and look at the death of Jesus. So there's no way you explain the death of Jesus and ignore this context. Just say he just died and he offered it to God. And so God the Father just said, okay, I'm satisfied.

And in three days imagine of justice were met. What? Just so that we can enter heaven, please go and sleep. The issue was the earth. Heaven and earth were involved. Now, does the New Testament writer write this about the Exodus of the death of Jesus and resurrection? They do. Look at Paul Colossians 2. Were there the other time. And 15 I've been now this is verse 14. Blotting out the handwriting of ordinance was written against us, which was against us, which was contrary to us. And took it out of the way leading to his cross have been spoiled principalities and powers. He made a shoe of them openly triumphing over them in it having spoiled principles and powers. Now, the language of spoiling is an Exodus language. Look at matthew 12. In the Hebrew in Exodus 12:36 Put your hands in Matthew 12.

Exodus 12:36. The Lord gave people favor on the side of Jesus. They lent them great things and they spoiled Nat SAL N A T S A L okay to escape, to be delivered off to take out of okay. It's used for rescuing. May be a slave be spoiled in Genesis 34:27 is used for a city. Genesis 34:27 29 is when you rescue a slave. The sons of Jacob came upon the slain and spoiled the city. Because they had defined filed their sister. They took their ship, 28, their oxen, the houses and which were in the city and which was in the field. And all their wealth little ones and their wives they took captive. Took their captive and spoiled. That was it. That is, you take what was in their possession. So it's not like to spoil. I'm spoiling the television.

Nuts are to spoil. It means to take away someone's influence, to take away someone's powers. Now so Colossians 2:15. 1/2. Look at Matthew 12:1. We're looking at Matthew 12. 29. Now notice what happened here. He had cast out a demon. You notice there was a lot of casting out of demons in the ministry of Jesus. Now in 25 he says every kingdom divided against itself is brought to the solution. Every city or house divided against himself shall not stand. And if Satan casts out Satan is divided against himself, how shall then his kingdom stand? If I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? Therefore they shall be your judges. But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you.

How else can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods? Except he first of all bind a strong man, then he will spoil his household. He will spoil. Now this is a translation or translation of that word. Natsa in the Greek is the word diapazo B I A R P a V O B I A means to take a person's possessions, To take what was with him. Mark 3:27 Use the same thing. But look at Colossians 2 and 8. The same word was now used for the believer. Colossians 2, 8 Let beware, lest any man should spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. After the traditions of men. The rudiments of the world are not after Christ. So that's what it means to spoil. So to spoil basically has to do with to take from.

So in the death of Jesus, something was taken. He spoiled. Principal and power means that things were taking. And this is referring to the host of heaven. Just the same way in Egypt there was a spoiling. The way Paul uses the Ephesians 1 is different. Ephesians 1 and 21. He says, Far above all principalities, power, might and dominion, everything that is named, not only in this world, but also that which is to come and put all things under his feet, and gave wherever all things the church, which is his body, the fullness. So something was taken, and something was given. First Corinthians 15 and verse 24. Then cometh the end, when it shall have the light of the kingdom to God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule and all authority.

For he must reign till he had put all his enemies under his feet. Last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. For he had put all things under his feet when he said, all things are put under him, is manifest that he himself is excepted, which did put all things under him. And that's Psalm 110. 1. The Lord said to my Lord, he said, sit at my right hand shall I make all the enemies your enemies under your footstool. So the writers of Scripture and we can look at first Peter 3, maybe that one too. First Peter 3. And verse 22. Who is gone unto heaven, and is on the right hand of God, Angels and authorities and powers being made subject to him, being made subject to him. Writer of Hebrews 2:14.

For as much as then the children are particular of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the sin that he might through death destroy him that had the power of death, that is the devil delivered them with through the fear of death, were all their lifetime subject to bondage. Now go to chapter 10 and verse 12. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever sat down at the right hand of God. Just as we read now in Hebrews 2. From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool, so in the resurrection there was a show of authority and power. So in the three days and three nights Jesus disarmed supernatural beings. There was judgment in the three days and three nights. It was in the supernatural world.

The conquest of the death of Jesus and his resurrection is as well was over. Hear me. The death of Jesus and his resurrection was over supernatural beings. It's not over men, it's over supernatural beings. So in Acts 1, when he rose from the dead, I showed this in the second service or fourth service. And when he has spoken these things, verse nine, while they beheld, he was taken up. And the cloud was seen out of his eyes. Was taken up. Which cloud? You know, we have seen cloud means what? Selection of spiritual beings. Very well. And while it looks different to what happened, they went up. And as it went up, behold, you think I know you have read your witness book like an aeroplane. So where is it going to? It's going to another country.

If you go up like this, you're going to another country. They're not living there, just they go to some another country. You know, for the shape of the earth, you are going to another country or you are going to another state. Your plane is not going after Nigeria. While they look surprised about heaven, as they went up before, two men stood by them in the world. But these are supernatural beings, so that means it was a vision. While he said, you men of Galilee, why stand thee gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you shall come in like manner. In like manner. The supernatural world context, therefore is the context of the Bible. The law of Moses is an interpretation of the supernatural world using human culture and human language.

The Bible therefore is a book that interprets the supernatural world that must be farm is our understanding. So the death of Jesus is not God conquering men that killed him on the cross? No, it's not God because he offered them forgiveness and deliverance. Just like in Egypt. It wasn't about the cities of Egypt, it was about the gods. God wasn't fighting Egypt, he wanted to rescue Egypt. It was about the gods. And notice we said that the genesis of these gods is in man's disobedience. Jeremiah 22, 8, 9. He gave them up to the sons of God, the host of heaven. 4. You can read that through the Old Testament. You see it. So where there is bondage, there's marital world, right? Where there's judgment and where there is redemption.

So when it says in Acts 2, the son shall be turned the moon to blood, he's saying that the host of heaven, right, Will be taken down in this conquest. They will be judged and not difficult. Quick one look at Psalm 82 and we'll just leave it at that and we'll come back again. Psalm 82. There is something here. That's why the language of preaching the gospel is warfare. So this is going to lead us, what we're going to say in the second session. It's warfare, he says. When we are preaching the gospel, Paul says it can't be with the enticing words of man's wisdom that won't set anybody free. It has to be the demonstration of the Spirit's power. So look at this. Psalm 82. God stands in the conversion of the mighty. He judges among the gods.

How long would you judge unjustly? Now, let's take this to Egypt, right? How long would you judge unjustly? I'll tell the president of the wicked, say, defend the poor and fatherless. Justice should be afflicted and needy. Deliver the poor and needy, rape them out of the hand of the wicked. That is, how long are you going to not do justice? You take that to Egypt. That happens. That's what you saw in Exodus 1. It now says, they know not, neither will they understand. They walk on in darkness, and all functions of the earth are out of. Of course, I said you are gods. All of you are the children of the Most High. But you shall die like men and fall like one of the princes. Arise, O God, judge the earth, for thou shalt inherit all the nations.

Did he do this in Egypt? Huh? Now that word arise, let me explain it to you. Is the Hebrew word kum. I hope I'm right. If I know, I've correct myself. But the Greek of it is the resurrection. So the resurrection of Jesus is that Arise, O God, and judge. Psalm 68. Arise, O God, and let God arise, and let his enemies be scattered. Let also them that hate him flee before him. Now, if you read this Psalm 68. Very well. We've done this study before too. It now talks about the host of heaven, verse 14. When the Almighty scattered kings in it was white as snow in salmon the hill of God is as the hill of Bashan and I heel as the hill of Bashan. Why leap ye heels the hill which God desires to dwell in?

Yea the Lord will dwell in forever. The chariots of God are 20,000 thousand, even thousands of angels. The Lord is amongst them in Sinai and in the holy place. So is this spiritual war. Exactly so the enemies is referring to their supernatural and this is the context of when Paul now says he led captain captive, rose up and he gave gifts as men. So this is the context of the preaching of the gospel. This is the reason why the Old Testament authors use the word basa Warfare word. Gospel means warfare and a supernatural one. Does the New Testament retain the context of the Old Testament? Yes. Not the culture but theology. The theology of the Old Testament fixates the whole earth in the supernatural world and so must we. Let's take a 10 minutes break.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/