Second Timothy 3, 16. All Scripture is given by expression of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. Now notice what he says. He says the writing is given by spiritual doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, righteousness, that the man of God will be perfect through reformation to all good works. And this refers to the Old Testament. Now they are the most reliable. This is very. I won't say it that way. When you study the Old Testament together with the New Testament now usually you see there is this, should I call it. There is this overt emphasis on reading prophecies. So you find people trying to say, okay, this is prophesying about Jesus. But if we do understand that what is most prophetic. I don't like this. That prophetic.

What carries much of prophecy in the Old Testament through the New Testament are more patterns. That's why we have to revisit the concept of motifs. There are more patterns, irregularity. You can see that regularity is more precise than looking for a dossier. The Lord is more precise. And in that regularity is where you will find how God. That regularity is how God will hide things from the enemy. There's a regularity that needs to be studied, you know, And I said it is the non verbal prophecies. Non verbal is a non verbal prophecy. And you see, and the New Testament writers took it like that. They took those patterns as prophecy. So you can understand. And I was talking to someone, this is not even on spiritual things. We're talking about Nigeria.

And I said that you can understand this if you read this and read this. You know why this happened? The guy said, you spoke like an oracle of God. I said, I know, but what I just said to you is read it. If you study it, things usually didn't change. Is the fact that you didn't just study it. Now if you study this and you see it. Oh, I said, go and look at this one, look at this one, look at that one. It was about Nigeria. Really. I said, look at this. So he said, okay, maybe he's in Nigeria. I said, no. I said, I took him to another country. So you can just see it. So they start regularity. You find in scripture. I.

And so the New Testament writer will say, like Matthew, that it might be fulfilled and you won't find anybody prophesying. And he uses the same word used for prophecies in that conversation. So Romans 15:4. For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning. Now what was written said that we, through the patience and call of Scriptures, may have hope. He says, inspired. Now, what is he talking about? It's so interesting that he's talking about David in verse 2, verse 3. Sorry, those of them that reproached him fell on me. Now, that's verse three, which is Psalm 69. 9. That Psalm 69 is something worth paying attention to. Look at that Psalm 69. Now the interesting thing is it will first of all sound unrelated. And that's why we said that. It's okay. Let me. Let me address this.

Someone told me one day, he said, why? Why do I need someone to teach me the Scriptures? This is how he said. He said, why do I need it? I mean, is it not just in human language? And this is the part of the grace of God that you need to realize? I said, why do I teach you? I said, you should be glad. He said, why? I said, that's why the enemy is always blindsided. If you could know it that easily. The enemy will not be blindsided. Because you can always rate the devil's knowledge by looking at man. I've said that over the years. So the enemy is blindsided because it's the Spirit. First Corinthians 2. Paul said that the natural man does not receive. That already tells you the limit of the enemy. The things of the Spirit of God.

Not because he doesn't have intelligence to read the English or the Latin or the Greek, except because they are foolishness to him. Moriah, which doesn't make sense. They are foolishness to him. So I said to him, I said, I don't know language. The truth is that's how the enemy is backside as well. So here you may not even find the connection. What is David talking about? David is saying Psalm 69. I said from 68, I am become a stranger unto my brethren and an alien unto my mother's children. The first verse says, save me, O God, for the waters have come unto my soul. This is David. David is not talking about Jesus. He's not talking about any. He's not saying. He's not talking about a coming Christ. Then he says in verse nine, for the zeal of thine house has eaten me up.

You recall that's in John 2, right? The zeal of your house. Now, when it says your house, there was no. There was a tabernacle. It wasn't referring to that. Psalm 23 talks about, I will dwell in the house of the Lord, which is be. And you know, David knew what that house was Second Samuel seven. I did say that also at both the camp meeting and in church, that God told him, no, you can now build for you. The zeal of your house has eaten me up. And the reproaches of them that reproach thee are falling upon me. Which means he is bearing the afflictions of others. That's what he's saying here. Now, where's the connection? Paul now says, now Jesus. Now look at this. When Jesus now entered the temple, and you know, he said, the zeal of his father's house has consumed.

That's what's going on here now. The zeal of the Father's house has consumed him. What house is it, that temple or what God said to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? Of course, that's clear. The zeal of that house, the passion of that house, a house for all nations, has consumed him, which means the passion to build that tabernacle, that temple has consumed him. And that's what's in the heart of David. So where is the connection between Jesus and David and eventually, watch this. The church in Rome, here is the house. You know, Rome was about Jew and Gentile, and that's why Paul used the word body. Soma, body, union. Romans 12:1 and 2, present your body, a living sacrifice. Romans 12, 4, Romans 12, 6. So it's a body. Romans 12, 4, 5. The body, the functions that unity we have.

Jew and gentile, body born and free, male and female, not marriage. Now, so get there in the same house. That's zeal. So if that zeal, if you look at that connection, then Romans 15 now says, look, those who are weak bear their infirmities, which means that you identify with them. It's a house on Sunday. We said that a temple is a union of what? God and man, heaven and earth. Then don't say man and mankind, please. I, I say that emphatically. The man and man is mankind. So now does it also mean the union of weak and the strong? So remember I told you years back what a retired theologian, but he's retired bishop of the Methodist Church. He said to me, he said, chris, what is. He said, look at you, we're talking about revivals.

So he said, we used to have the argument, or we stopped anyway, but that the argument on the charismatic church and all that. So he said to me that he thinks that most of what we call revivals, that they are just rebellion. So I said, no, I will try to explain. Yeah, he said, you, he said, you like Paul, I know you are A Paul person, he said, what do you think? I heard me say this again. Again said, what do you think is the greatest emphasis of Paul's doctrine? I don't want to say righteousness. What is righteousness about? So what's the greatest emphasis? I said unity, because that's what it is. So he said, now do those revivals promote unity? Of course, that is a bit true sweeping, but it calls for introspection that we always. People just break away.

They don't believe in us praying in tongues. We want to be praying in tongues. Bam. Then assuming we are going to edify the non praying in tongues people, then that's not out of place. What usually happens is that we are now more superior. We are superior, sorry to the non praying in tongue set. And the non praying in tongues set will now tell us that they are holier, you know? I said, no. So everybody, at the end of the day, you see, what did God do in his temple? Paul is bringing me here. He says, look, he had told us to present that body. Romans 12:1 2. A living sacrifice. The word sacrifice is a temple word. They talked about gifts later on, charisma. So he says here that you bear the infirmity to bear his unity, right? Come on.

So that's the Father's house. So he says the zeal. So you must read that zeal of your Father, because that's the context of this statement. For Christ, please, not himself. As he's written, the portion of them that reproached their fell on me. That's the Father. That is unite. You unite. So whatever things are written. Okay, so go back to that Psalm 69. Look at it again. Maybe I should read from verse. Verse 6. Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord God of hosts, be ashamed for my sake. Let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake. O God of Israel. Because of thy sake are born reproach. Shame that covered my face. I have become a stranger unto my brethren, an alien to my mother's children.

For the zeal of thine house has eaten me up the bushes of them that reproached their falling upon me. Then I wept and chastised my soul. Fasting was to reproach. I made sacros to my garment. And so he's talking about. He's talking about others, okay? Is praying for others that they may not confide because of him. So he takes on both of them. Jesus goes into the temple and he speaks about his Father's house and the disciples. Oh, that's what David was talking about the zeal of the Father's house, which is bringing everybody in unity. And Paul comes here and he says, if you are strong. Romans 15:1 bear the infirmities of weak. That's the nature of the house. Bear the infirmities of the weak. Say whatever things are written aforetime are written for our learning.

That's the word doctrine that we through the patience and comfort of the Scriptures we might have hope. So Bible language is very important too. To situate it within the first thing is always situate the New Testament writings within the Old Testament context that the authors intended. They assume you read the Old Testament, okay. And you must find the connection. Like I said earlier on, if Satan can be blindsided, then there's no reason why anybody should assume what the Bible is saying. Don't assume revelation eventually is the work of the Spirit, but it is from a patient study of the Scriptures where you don't cross the natural barriers or sorry, the natural templates used within the Scriptures. Revelation knowledge is both the natural and the supernatural. It doesn't. None of them are side.

Because we have people, I told you before, we have people who study scriptures and they are very knowledgeable to just prove that there is no God. And they are astute and academic. That's no revelation because in spite of their knowledge of Greek and Hebrew ancient languages, they are still worse than an idol worshipper. So you have that. So where does that leave us? The natural doesn't mean that to now do my study. That means wrong. No, like I said yesterday, I said curiosity ends with faith. I believe God. So what I'm learning now is that relationship. I want to know Him. It's not. I want to know whether there is a Him. There are two different things. I want to know Him, I want to understand Him. It's from that. It's from that faith that what is a musterion is clear to us.