Let's pray. Father. Name of your son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for a time of study in your word. Thank you for the light you always bring our way. We ask this morning that you flood our understanding with yours, that this morning questions are answered, doubts totally unraveled, things that look mysterious are resolved in our minds and together as a church. Jesus Christ, your son, even as it sees us in him, in this thought, he is glorified. And as we edified, built up with perfect and precise understanding by the power of the Holy Spirit alongside those who hear us and the body of Christ. Amen. Good morning again. Let's move as quickly as possible. Second Timothy 3 and 15. Still seated on high. So on Saturday. Oh, sorry. Friday and Saturday, we will be examining.

I'm not sure whether we should start that quickly, but if I can. If I look at the horizon and it's fine, I think we just start talking about idols. It's an area I would love us to really understand. So now we talk about idols before, as you are speaking from the village. But I mean, look at how much of the New Testament talks about idols. Let's just run through that. So you know, why Romans 1 of us, from verse 20 through to 28, talks about, you know, being given over to worship the creature rather than the Creator. Romans 1, about 10 texts there will be from verse 29 to verse 32, Romans 2, Thou that abhorrent idols. Verse 22, find concept of idols. First Corinthians. That's a whole lot.

First Corinthians 12, 1 3, First Corinthians 8 and First Corinthians 10, you have conversations about idol. Second Corinthians 6, temple of idols. That's what he calls the unsaved. In verse 16, they look at Galatians. We'll touch that today a bit. Galatians 4, Verse 8. When you knew not God, you did service unto them, which by nature are no gods. Okay, Galatians 5 and 20. Idolatries work on the flesh. Then you have Ephesians. Well, Ephesians 6, really, when you talk about where Paul talks about flesh and blood pressure. We'll go through that also 6, 12 Colossians might not be direct, but Colossians 2. And 18 through to 23 talks about, you know, popping your mind into the unseen. First Thessalonians. One minute. Okay. First Thessalonians 1. Sorry. And verse 9, how you turn to God from idols to serve the living God. Right?

Then you have most of the book of Hebrews. We See that later as well. First John 5, the very last text. First John 5, 21. Little children keep yourselves from idols, an instruction that Paul gave in 1st Corinthians 10 and 14. Flee from idolatry. So if you don't know what is idolatry and idols, and you think it's just a concept from the village, then there's an area of God's word you are totally ignorant about and it's too overwhelming not to understand it. And it's an Old Testament explanation where we understand what are those. So that's why we're going to look at it. Second Timothy three, quick. And verse 15. Say 15 again. 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God spoke table for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness.

And the text here is directly referring to the Old Testament text. I'm just going to repeat some things we said the last time, which is Genesis, to Malachi. We said they have to be studying together. And like I said yesterday in the service that there's an assumption that the Old Testament was about the prophecies of Jesus. So, and I mentioned that, you know, we've done these studies when it says Christ died for our sins According to scriptures, 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4 was buried from the according to scriptures. That is not talking about prophecies. We must learn to read scriptures in the patterns. The patterns are prophecies. We call it nonverbal prophecies. Things you can see, and that's why it's intelligently seen. And there are very few times you would see the prophecy about Jesus on the lips of Old Testament prophets.

It's almost a rare occurrence. It's not as frequent as people assume. In fact, in proper studies, you discover that some prophecies are really not directly about Jesus. And like we said in Luke 24, why did he have to interpret? Why would you interpret if something is direct and it says, thus saith the Lord, a man will come and die for our sins. And. And then God will come. No, let's say God said, the Lord, I, the Lord will become a man. When I become a man, then I'll die for your sins. When I die for your sins and I'll be buried, and then when I'm married Sunday, I'll rise from there, then I'll build my church and the gates of Russia. And then why would the prince of this world not know it?

Like I mentioned the church yesterday, if that was as clear as we think, then Satan would just have given the devil. Okay, when I say, Satan now. You know what I'm talking about, right? I think we want something about that. That somebody eventually assumed that status over time by revelation. No, progressive revelation. Somebody now assumed it, and then he goes like, oh, guys, don't touch that guy. Touch not my anointed. You know, that's what Satan would have told all the demons. Touch not my anointed, do my prophet no harm. You wouldn't have gone ahead to kill that kind of person. In fact, eventually they disobeyed him and got him on the cross. Rather than vinegar, they give. They are giving him alive and say, you know, just stay alive. Okay?

You know, but the point really was Paul says, as the prince of this world known it first Corinthians 2. Eight, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. So the prophecies of Jesus are within the patterns. He assumed it. He assumed things. The key issue was man. So in Genesis 3:16, when he said, the seed of the woman will bruise the head of the serpent. It's not directly Jesus, as we sometimes imagine. No, the seed of the woman. Now Eve, in an error, felt it was the firstborn, just like Abraham, Isaac, and even Jacob. Maybe Jacob, maybe not Jacob totally, but Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. We have the firstborn thing. So Eve also had the same assumptions, you know, and she thought it was Cain. So. But eventually she saw it was Abel, the seed whom Cain slew.

Now, if Cain slew that seed and it eventually amounts to talking about Jesus, he was also slain. Okay, Was also slain. And that's why some people do. I don't agree with that interpretation. They say the lamb slain from the world was Cain. I mean, so Abel, that is looking at that, Luke 11, from Abel to Zechariah, you know. No, that's not true. Abel at one point was. Sometimes was called lamb. Okay, but. But I think the idea is to see that the method of which the seed of the serpent works is the same. So it goes after the anointed, goes after the chosen, goes after the one that, you know, God is using to bless the nations, and he goes after. So that's the seed of the woman.

Now, eventually it points to Jesus because Jesus became a man, not because it was directly to Jesus. So I told you yesterday, service, that the game changer was God becoming a man. So he assumes, you know, all those narratives, you know, about death and the sufferings of the anointed, which is Christ. So it's looking at the patterns. And I mentioned also, maybe I should say this again, that, you know, God seemed To work with people who are very discreet. Because he's also discreet. Very, very discreet people. I mean, somebody was saying who was in service yesterday? And you practically. I mean, it was a couple. This is director. And I said, look, God works with people that are very discreet. That when he was guru rescue Israel from Egypt, there was a man there and he just required. He's not going to say anything.

And there's a man who was raised in the house of Pharaoh Moses. He was raised for 40 years and that was the bomb. And we had people that doesn't say anything about it. You know, Moses was discovered. Not that somebody was giving a cheese. Miriam was selling her best tea or her husband and say, there's something I will have told you know, that guy is my brother. This is, you know, I cannot hide anything from you. In marriage counseling they said we must tell ourselves everything. That Moses, the daughter, the son of Gila, I raised him. I was saying, wow, I should fear you quiet. Until it was discovered. We can go on and on how God uses people and how you look at Joseph, for example. If you are told Jacob that Joseph is alive Egypt. But I have a plan. Which plan?

The man will have gone to Egypt first flight and say, where is my son? You know? And you know, back and forth, back and forth. They go back to their home country. Then when the farming comes, they'll go back to Egypt to go and look for corn. And they'll say, what is happening when you are the one that opens your mouth to look for your son? So many times there's a discretion part. Just like Abel. I mean, I say Abel, Joseph and Mary were, you know, he just kept quiet. The incarnation wasn't said wasn't. I mean, for. I mean Arab not to have known what he said was the incarnation must have come up later. Oh, that's the God that became a man, you know, come up later. So it shows that we need to take care of the enemy.

There's a lot of wisdom being left by the spirit. This is just part color living. I've taught you this over time anyway, just. Just open your mouth. Anything, any mainstay. WhatsApp status. Anything. WhatsApp status, guys, you know what? That's how my career. WhatsApp status, guys. Now are they supposed to help you do something? Oh, guys, you know, WhatsApp status. And this is all you Snapchat or TikTok, you know. But the point is, I mean it shows how naturally the prophecies about Jesus were hidden in stories not hidden from us, but for us. As Paul was saying, First Corinthians 2, 7, you know, and it's a high point of the ministry. Just, just look at John 16, 13, I have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. I mean, look at that kind of statement.

This is God as the pastor, you cannot bear them now in Hebrews five of whom have many things to say, but seeing a doll of earrings, point is, he didn't say them. 2 Corinthians 12, Paul says, some things are hard for a man to alter. You know, there are things that you see that there's discretion in the ministry. There's discretion. Discussion of walking with God. So you also think that God just called the prophet, said, you know what, Go and announce to the world, going home, become a man. He'll be born in the womb of Mary. This one will happen. This, no. So the prophecies about Jesus are largely in patterns, largely in patent, much importance. When he says, for he wrote of me in John 5, 46 and 47, he's not saying that Moses said Jesus.

No, it's the fact that Yahweh we're going to see that circle, that Yahweh is the person talking to you. It's going to before him. Now. What are you talking about? I mean, I mean, and you know, I've said to you too that Satan is usually limited by man's knowledge. You notice that in the patterns of Scripture is by man's knowledge. God doesn't resist him. Hey, guy, come on, we're going to do this. It's man's knowledge. So the promises about Jesus, you know, are not direct statements. Doors. Okay, I caught the yesterday God said Lord moments. No, they are not. Many of them are not. They are just things you watch in patterns. Something I've seen about God. He knows how to hide things in light. There will be light like this, but darkness cannot comprehend it. He knows how to hide it.

He knows how to, you know, bring about his will in a very. I mean, that's. Paul calls it the multidimensional wisdom of God. And we must follow that. We must understand it. So therefore, that's very strange when a church or a ministry begins to copy what the world does. What are you talking about here? You don't even understand what's happening. That's, that's not, that's never God's pattern in the world. God is doing something. It's the other way around. When there were no taxis, censors you know, the Messiah was born. Something else was in the news. Cnn, Fox News, sky, let's come home. Arise. TV channels tbc, Wazobia. They were carrying something else. But something else was going on that was important to humanity and it was not seen in the census.

Just like the death of Jesus Lockett's resurrection, when he rose from the dead, he revealed himself to just a select number of people. And those guys were discreet enough not to put it on the Internet and say, guys, I may not be able to tell you everything, but something just happened. Watch out, Cain first is going to be in trouble. They think they did something to Jesus. It shocked you see, you know, they were discreet enough to know who to talk to. I will tell you know, your audience. Who are you talking to? What's this about? What do they need this? You know, and that is how the things about Christ were within the scriptures. That's why some scholars will say the New Testament is the Old Testament concealed. You know, of course I don't do that dichotomy.

But the concealment they are saying is you can only study it. Satan wasn't so intelligent to know what was going on. In fact, I dare say that where. And this was EWTN said what Satan saw, by the time he saw who was on the cross, it was late, it was too late. Because at that point he had exercised all he had, which was death. Hebrews 2:14 and 15. And he that had the power of death was destroyed by a man, God that became a man. I told you how. I mean, why did he become a man? So those are key issues. So it's not like there's a dossier's love moment that you're always looking for about Jesus. No, they are usually in patterns. We call them motifs. And that's why we came up with the concept of identification unifiers.

How can I unify this world and you know, look at it. There are things that unifies different worlds and we can see and this will help you also in knowing what God is doing. Like I mentioned yesterday in service about the online church modus, it's really ridiculous that we just follow the world because it's very easy. I mean, I know some of you here, you work remotely. How do you work four days or four days at home? So just like church, I pray at home four days. So we think that can also work for church. So as soon as the world was doing it, we just felt, church should be able to do this one. That's how there was a time like that in America it came to Nigeria as well.

They said well, that when you are explaining something in class, you need somebody to be doing like this, to be dramatizing and to be showing you know what you are doing. That people usually like that kind of side attraction so that they can concentrate. That's how they brought it to churches in Nigeria. I know they stopped. Many of you didn't even know them what I'm talking about. So the person admitted that really people were not listening to the person again. They were looking at, you know, how worse Cardenius the world must tell you what the church is that you know, God has left that the new normal. I'll just be a whole. And I if I saw one online ordination, I said that would very interesting. We soon get online. Resurrection from the dead. God is faithful.

Okay, so look at First Corinthians, Romans 15. We have things to look at this morning. Romans 15 and verse 1. Now look at what he's talking about. We them that are strong ought to bear the fountains of the weak and not to please ourselves to every one of us, please let every one of us please his neighbor for his good in edification. For even Christ pleased not himself. The repose of them that reproached thee fell on me. Now he's quoting David. David is not talking about Jesus, just like Psalm 22. My God, my God, why are you forsaking him? He was talking about himself, you know. But because Jesus became a man, he assumed the status of David. That is why he became prophecy. Now the question is that notice that it now goes beyond Jesus assuming it.

So just like Jesus has in those prophecies, we are also going to walk where they walked. That's why Paul will talk about 1 Corinthians 10. And since the things happen to them as examples to us as examples and admonition, upon the ends of the world, the fulfillment of all things have come. Which means we are going to learn from it because we walk where they walk. So here David's life story becomes Christ's story. It's not the other way around. His life story becomes Christ. So I said the other day that many times, because the things God is doing is foolishness. First Corinthians 2, 13, 14 says foolishness. Natural man cannot receive it. You know the word Moriah, foolishness and discover that in that foolishness is where the power of God is. It's foolish because it doesn't follow the intellectual system of the world.

So you have Satan blindsided many times again in the temple in John 2, you know, when they said the zealous Father has consumed him, they saw it after the event. Oh, this was what happened. And again they refer to the same text in Psalm 69,9 it has consumed him. So what is the Father's house? We said the other times, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, and what he promised David in 2nd Samuel 7 is that Father's house. So we must really be totally at home with the course of the New Testament, Old Testament. Yesterday we looked at body. I mean, remember that I said the word body of Christ. Unfortunately, people think it's physical body. Soma is the word. Soma is unity. And we said body of Christ. The expression body of Christ comes from Genesis 1:26. Let's make man in our image. That's the word.

Selem t s e L E M an expression. So when you have body, you have head. Head is not physical head, you know, head is source. Carefully. Your head is not the source of your legs. So that's not a physical body explanation at all. It's a source. Source and expression. So the image is the expression. The source is the head. God, head of all things. The body of Christ or mankind is the source. So understanding Bible language is very critical. Knowing the language of scripture. So it's a body of Christ. Don't say, our own church, we are the Tolem. Those are stupid. The image of God is the body Soma took to put things together. Asoma to body of sin. Romans 6:6 presents your body, not bodies, as some versions are put in Romans 12:1. A living sacrifice.

That's why he uses the word sacrifice and worship in Romans 12:1. Okay, why? Because he's talking about temple. Temple is the body, the union of God and man, Heaven and earth and mankind. So you have the word body image. So when you understand that language and the other time we spoke about, does the Bible have dietary laws? It's something about clothes, you know, man shall not put on what pertaining to a woman, you know, and it becomes a huge problem. Where's that text again? It's a text I've never tried to remember. Luke 22, I think verse five. Some of you know it very well. I've never tried to. You know, every time I preach, I'm always asking, what's that verse? Because I've never tried to. It's one text I've never tried to even remember why I don't meditate upon it.

It's not something I'm praying or not saying. God, I need light. Light over what? Martial protect to a Woman then who is the decider? I say, okay, so you already showed you the cultural context. A cultural context. You know, somebody was trying to do one deep exegesis. He said, look, he was talking about garments of war. Cool down. Those instructions have to do with worship. We said that the other time that in going to Canaan, because the ancient world was largely supernatural. So things that you will have taught and I can even say superstitious. So things that you will naturally is worship. Just I want to talk about the woman and the menstrual cycle and menstrual flow. And today people are still saying that.

I mean, I, I mean some churches will say, not the ones you know, say if you manage an apprentice, you can't come to service because they've taken an awful interpretation of that text. Meanwhile, in going to Canaan, they had Canaanite goddesses, fertility goddesses that they used those secretions, you know, discharges were used as worship. So why Moses will say, look, what we are doing is a counter culture. You are holy is so that you not reflect what they do. That's all. It has nothing to do, you know. And the same thing goes with clothes. There is no clothes that pertains to a woman or a man. There's nothing like that. It's culture that determines that in some culture today, women tie rapper. I mean, men tie rapper. So which one now?

I remember those days we used to joke among some people like brethren worry. We're just, we're just taunting them and we say, okay, you must not wear towel. And the guy said, no, no, that's a bathroom. It's not in the Bible anywhere. So you wear your trousers to bathroom. You do when he wants to sleep. Blah, blah. You cannot use clothes. Don't mind us. We source of light like that. We're talking our life ex Diwali brethren. You know, we came out of Diwali, so we come back and hunt them and all that. I mean, you experience that when you know almost nothing, you think you know a lot, so you begin to harass everybody, you know. What are you talking about? What part is.

I want to explain here we say, why can't you Jericho when you were born, were you not born in Jericho? That's the original plan of God, you know, very stupid interpretation, You know. But you know, we have to take the Bible much more seriously. Like somebody right this. And I agree with Indiana Colander that sinism is not Bible explanation. You don't. Yes, you can. We can joke once in a While, but because you are taunting people doesn't mean that you are saying what is right. But the point really was, I mean, again, largely we need to understand that there's a cultural context. That cultural context is because within the culture of the ancient Israelites and even the ancient Egyptian culture, their culture was worshiped. The way they used to behave, everything was worshiped.

Now, do you know that when you come to the New Testament, it also says everything you do due to the glory of God, and glory of God is also his temple and his place of worship. So you look at it and say, well, we still have that context in the New Testament. So everything. So to be holy as the Lord your God is holy, they needed to have a counter culture. Counter culture as touching menstrual cycle, counterculture as touching clothes. And you know, the same thing still applies today, even though cultures are submerged, inter overlapped and all of that. But there must be a culture. And Brother Hagin will tell us that the New Testament culture is love now, which is, I would say is New Testament.

And as well within the context of the Old Testament, love your neighbor as yourself, which is you begin to look at yourself as a servant to others so that you use your life to serve others and you be sacrificial to become beneficial to others and all of that. So the core issue is that what we often read is there's no dietary law. And I showed you that. Oh, don't touch crabs, don't touch. It has nothing to do with the food. That's why you don't see that the result of it will be high blood pressure. It's about worship. It's abolition to the Lord. That's why, to the Lord. Abolition to the Lord. It's not. There was no doctor in the camp that was telling them anything about nutrition. It was not about food. Matthew 15. Are you telling something? Matthew 15. That's why wholesale.

Now usually people will dump those instructions because they say we're not under the law. How can you tell me not to eat? Okay, put your hand in and you know what I'm talking about. He said, look, verse three. Why do you transgress the commandment of God? By your tradition. Okay, tradition is how we now go about it. In verse 6, you have made the commandment of God of non effects by your tradition. Then he says, you draw close to be with your lips, but your heart is far. Verse 9. In vain they do worship, teaching for doctrines, the commandment of men. Now you'll be wondering, how can you call commandments of men that Moses said, don't say the Lord. No, it's the cultural context. Do you get it? That is the commandments of men, not the commandment of God.

So the commandment of God was communicated through the commandments of men or through the prism P R I S M, or through the, you know, construct of. Okay, we're talking about, since we're talking about worship and worship in this context deals with clothes. So we're going to use clothes to talk about worship. But culture is evolving. So we cannot stick to the culture, but we stick to the commandment. Is that very clear? Just like covering of hair, covering of head. First Corinthians 11. You know, Paul used a present day culture to explain submission to God and to your husband and spouse. But he wasn't sticking to covering of hair. He was talking about being in all things, in subjection. That's what he's talking about.

So it's again in Matthew 15 he says here and understand verse 11, not that which goes into the mouth defiles a man, but that which comes out of the mouth that defiles the man. This is Old Testament theology. It's not talking about defiling here is not health. It's about worship because I was talking about the real worship. So the food laws were about worship, not nutrition. Then he says in 17, do you not understand that whatever enters in at the mouth goes into the belly and is cast into the ground? And those things which proceed out of the mouth comes forth from the heart and it defiles the man? So the thing is about worship. He says out of the heart proceeds for evil thoughts, murders, adulterers, fornication, steps, false witness, blasphemies.

These are the things that defile a man to eat of washing hands, defile not a man. That is not the food. Just like, you know, Genesis 2 is not about 3. It's not about the fruit, it's about worship, it's about the heart. So in 1 Timothy chapter 4, so I said to us that a lot of gems of truth have been discarded because we've thrown out Leviticus, because we feel it's not relevant to us again. So it's not relevant to us again. But all New Testament authors went to the same books to teach if you take our materials to his righteousness. And we did deal with that, some of them in his wrath too. I believe in the coming days, I'm thinking of a material called the Law of Moses very soon. But I guess we'll just trust God.

Look at Hebrews 13 okay, I've said first Timothy four first. So they are not diademals. They are not. Just like they are not. It's not science. Not talking about nutrition. No worship. First Timothy 4, verse 3, forbidding not to marry, cause the doctrine of devils and seducing spirit. Verse 1. Forbidding not to marry, commanding to abstain from meat which God had created to be received with thanksgiving of them that believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good and nothing to be received. Now, when they say God commanded, he's not saying there's no book that he's referring to by the Old Testament. Every book should be taken with thanksgiving.

But just like Paul in First Corinthians 8 and 10 said, but if something is known to be offered to idols and you abstain from it, even if it's a coconhe, I like God very. The one I like is specially made. People have tried. There was somebody who used to make it used to be in this church, has left this church. Ever since then, the anointing has lifted. Sister Numarava has tried and tried for about seven years, eight, nine years. But wherever I thank you for doing it. But instead of us, to idols, the way he live, you know, even if it's your best food, he said, the moment somebody says this is to idols for the person's conscience. Is that not the same thing in Leviticus? So it's not diet, it's about worship, right? First Corinthians 10:2.

The moment somebody says because of the person, don't use your liberty to become a stumbling blow for somebody else. So Israel, who worship Yahweh will not participate in eating food offered to idols or practices of that nature because of the other nations that they were sent to. So what Paul taught in 1 Corinthians 8, 10 is directly from the law of Moses, his holiness. And you see the greatest height of holiness when it comes to our walk in this world. He's walking in love. When I say, let me take that back. The greatest expression of holiness is walking in love. We are not of this world. So in Hebrews 13, look at how the writer of Hebrews now describes food. Don't forget why we are going to this.

We are going to this at this length is to see that the ancient Israelites, the Old Testament, call it very supernatural, call it superstitious, but the way they talk about trees, land, just like the sun, they had a supernatural context to virtually everything. And they are correct because the earth is the Lord's. If this earth, guys, if this is God's dwelling place. It is more supernatural than you think. So first Timothy. Sorry. Hebrews 13. Look at nine. He says, Be not carried about with diverse and strange doctrines. For it is good that the heart be established with grace, not with meats which have not profited them that occupy them. Meat doctrine. Because at the core of the diet instructions or the food instructions is a doctrine in Acts 10. Acts 10.

Notice again that Peter saw it in a trance, in a vision, and he says, arise, kill and eat. So four footed beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and foul on the air, and came to say, kill, Arise. Rise, Peter, kill and eat. Verse 13. Not so. I've never eaten anything that is common or unclean. What God has cleansed, thou shalt not call uncommon. What was the point? The point was that there was now a man seeking after God. Cornelius. So look at what the food now meant. It refers to people. The food was about people. Not that the food is people. It was about people. So which means that in this vision you can see light again from Leviticus on Leviticus. That is not about the food, it's about people.

So now when you have a genuine seeker of God, that food dichotomy goes, so it's not about food. This is not about food. This is about worship. So if the Old Testament. Hear me well. If the context of Old Testament events was largely supernatural, such that everything was supernatural, it shows why most. Moses had to legislate. Because look at Egypt. Pharaoh was a God. He was a God. And because he was a God, you can't bypass the instructions he was given, whether it is commerce, whether it's justice and etc. Etc. So Moses now taking the people out of it will also include the laws that they follow or they comply with. So you have to become a judicial authority and all of that. Because the laws therefore will carry a supernatural world context, even though they will be related with natural effects.

And that is how we must go back and read the law. Let's see something. Look at First Corinthians 10, No, nine. Sorry. I mean, every time I read this text, I just laugh and smile. I wish we sat more in Paul's audience. See how these things. As a man. Now he's talking about taking care of ministers. Okay, the beauty of this is so critical. One second. Something I wanted to. Now it now says, okay, verse seven. Who goes to warfare? Who plants a vineyard and eats not of the food thereof? First Corinthians 9. And who feeds a flock and eats not of the Milk of the flock, say I. These things that a man ought see it not the law. The same things. For through the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle. That's verse nine. That's Jeremiah 25. 4.

The mouth of the ox, that chest. Come now, that's what you are going to read. That means God is giving you instructions about how to treat animals. That would be very funny. How can God write books about treating animals? And he says, look, animals be. I mean, is there an agricultural class? He says, doth God care for oxen? Do you think you read about oxen? That's what he's saying. Does God care for oxen or set it all together for your sakes? So which means he's using the oxen to tell you how to treat those who work for you. Simple carry box. And that goes into food loss. I mean we can say, is Moses a doctor? No, it's about worship. So it goes. And imagine having to have a wholesale reading of the law again in the context of what was being said.

The moment we know that the earth is God's rest place and theology of the Bible is, let's call it a restless context where God is building a place of worship, then we think differently. Like EW Kenya said, the Bible is in the light of redemption. There's also in the light that redemption is also God building his own house. If we know that, they will pay attention to all the details, including things that refer to natural things. Why? Because the earth is founded. We saw it last week upon the seas. Land is God's salvation plan. Psalm 24 were there, right? Verse 1, 2 and 3. So when he's talking about food, it's not about food. This is not about oxen, this is about worship. So when he says whatever you eat or drink, look at it. Romans 14 do all to the glory of God.

And we have seen so far, though we have not built much on it, that the glory of God is about the worship place, it's tabernacle. So in Romans 14, Verse 6, he that regards the day, regards not to the Lord. He that does not the day to the Lord. Regarding he that eats to the Lord, for he gives God thanks. He that eats not to the Lord he eats not and he gives God thanks. Isn't it's about God, it's not about the food, it's about God. First Corinthians 8, No, 49. 10, Let's say 10, verse 31. Whether therefore we eat, verse 31, or drink or whatever you do all. Now what do we call the glory of God? We said the glory of God refers to his temple, right? His place of worship. Do all in service to God in worship.

So it's not about the food. Is that clear? Colossians 3. And 17. Whatever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and Father by him. So is the New Testament as supernatural in its context like the old? That's a question we have asked again. Now the challenge with that is that the New Testament is more modern. Modernity is science really where mankind has explored nature, natural knowledge, synthesis between knowledge application, discoveries, innovation. You know, that's science really. You explore, you know, how far can we go here? I mean, if you had told somebody in the days of Noah, maybe Paul, and say, I want to get to. I want to get Rome. Yeah, I'm going to catch a flight. By 4:00'. Clock.

Paula looked at you and said, okay, how, I mean, is it my chariots? He said, no, you say here, Peace, said the peace of God. Apostles understand there was nothing like that in their heads. You know, things have been explored. A lot of things have been explored. Now you can have air inside your house. I say air conditioner and it's serious. And you look at this one. You can have a, I mean a car. These have chariots and it's more small. No, no, this one, you can do this one. That's exploring nature. So it's in the modern world and it's of God, because he has created all things are for his pleasure. But look at this. Where the challenge is where we create, I'll use that word, a conflict. Where does the conflict come from?

We're getting the very borderline of the core of this series. Where the conflict comes is, so why do we create a conflict? No, that's what I was saying. Okay, we usually create a conflict. That's the word. And the first thing is we dichotomize, we separate. This is the natural, this is the supernatural. Yet scripture is very clear that what is natural is founded upon the supernatural. This is just nature and all that. So we now create a conflict, a real conflict. And that's where the issues are, because we are in a modern world. Imagine you want to know something and yes, you search Google, you should search Google, you know, for natural things. But you want to take a decision for your life and you say, okay, maybe you want to marry somebody and say, what are Egbert boys like?

In 1946 they had the Highest number of. I was not saying anything. Now what you have done, you are creating a conflict because you. That. That's horrible. What you have done is nonsense. Okay? Yeah. You are sick in the body. Just go to the doctor. Let them tell you. Okay. That begins to search. Possible cases headache at 2pm it's likely that the head will cut off by 4. Hey. This is what you have done. You have not searched. I am the God, Lord that healed thee. You're just looking at sickness as a natural thing. And if it's a natural thing strictly, then why do we have gifts of healings? So you have created a conflict where it ought not to have existed. And that's what we seek to unbundle in this series. So how is. How supernatural is the context of New Testament?

We've done it already. We've said this before, that the fact that he takes his doctrine from the Old Testament shows you that the context will remain the same, not the cultural context. Because culture today, our culture today does not identify the supernatural world at all. It doesn't see in the ancient Israelites and the Canaanites the way you make your hair. That's why you see, they gave them instruction as touching a beard. Gang. Your hair. The way you do your hair. No, you can't cut it like this. Like. See the way we oppress guys in those days, by the time we got the hold of those things and say no. Even the way you shaped your hair. I'll show you scripture. See, you're not supposed to shape your hair. You must not wear cotton polyester. The guy was looking at it. They say,

I said, so choose one. Is it the transfers one you are going for or this one even up your house? You must not be the hound. That is what. And it has. I mean, I mean, he has a deal of quantity in the Bible because there's something it represents in their world. So you're going to taunt people and begin to. But the point is science has taken us off the that cultural context that interprets the supernatural world. Fine. We might not be able any longer to interpret culture, but it doesn't change the fact that the world is supernatural. Every honest scientist will tell you that they always meet a brick wall. The limit how much you can only innovate from what you can know. And the senses have its limits. Ew. Ken is the healing man of the heart.

He says, I should have discovered there's something that is beyond science. That man is the hidden man of the heart. There is A man that you cannot get in any device. You can't. There's no device, there's no technological. He can't show you those things. So how supernatural? The question is, how supernatural is the New Testament and its context? I'll repeat it again. It retains not the cultural context of the Old Testament, but the supernatural context of it is the same. Now why now? Let's say a few things. Now, how come I will go back to what I said earlier. We don't see that supernatural world of the Old Testament. You would not say you don't see it in the New because you saw people walk on water in the New Testament. Right? Right. We saw a man move from one spot to the other.

A Philip, for example, is a bit arguable. We saw different scenarios coming of the storm. We saw that in the New Testament world. We saw the glory of God in the day of Pentecost, for example. We saw God speak to multiple people in John 12 and they thought it was angel, thought it was thunder. So we still see that in that world. World. So that shows you that what we have is a knowledge problem. There is an emphasis, an interpretation that has robbed us of the world of the Bible. It's like, okay, let me give you an instance. What, what do we call revivals in what we call the voice of healing revival? Some people just came up because it started from the William J. Seymour, before then Charles Panham, the Holiness brethren.

They got a hold of speaking in tongues and from there they just come around, speak in tongues. So I have some words of knowledge. Then they moved a bit. If I said that people like Charles Podjan, even Calvin, who were not pro charismatic gifts, there are times that in their meeting just brought out and mentioned someone's name because so it was still happening. So the voice of human revival came. Somebody just got a hold of God can heal your body. Something that is already in the world. Now what took it away is either a de emphasis or cynicism or just being critical. I'll say to us now by my own study, and I'm still making more researches, but the concept of disregarding the Old Testament has done away with, has affected our knowledge of the supernatural world.

In fact, you hear people say, is the word the written word? What is the written word? They will now say the written word is the epistles. The way now said the epistles is pointed to, not testimony. Said, no, no. It's pointing to. It has finished. You can't be reprobating and prohibiting at the same Time the written word no more. What's the written word? The epistles, you know. Yes, but the epistles point. In fact Paul in 1 Corinthians 10, he said all the events of the Exodus were spiritual by this, by the Holy Ghost. So when he was using pneumaticos, he was using Exodus as the background. Hey, no, no, no. That is an example onto us. How can somebody be an example to us if we are not going to walk in that experience? No, no, no, no.

Then it says gifts of the spirit. Yes, those ones, you know, there's just confusion. So does the New Testament retain the context? It does. Let's look at how the New Testament identifies now. I'll talk about this later on. How does he identify with the Old Testament in the structure of the supernatural worlds? Look at Colossians 1, For example, I mentioned this, the fact that the death of Jesus was reduced to just dying on the cross and wait, you know, and this is. No, When I mentioned that he went to hell. Some people the way they will get up, relax. So when I asked one guy that was in 2011 was BlackBerry, I remember very well. The guy said, I said, what do you have against Jesus going to hell? He said that word of faith nonsense. Relax.

I said, is there anything supernatural about the death of Jesus? He said, the only spiritual thing about it is that wait for this. He said, his death stands before God as spiritual. I said, hagos speed. I said, we're in trouble. He said, that's what I'm saying. That is taking us. Hey. I said, we are back to Psalm 28, verse 2. He said, no, no. I said, okay. I said, so the contact Jesus had with the enemy. He said no, it was not the fact that they hated him and all that. I said so what happened in three days? He said, so that the full elements of justice will be meted as said by who? Said by God. I said, where? He said, no, he's agreed. Set up car. He said no. He just got angry.

He said, I. I will never associate with you again. I said, I'm asking. He said, no, no, this is nonsense that you are preaching Jesus because the devil. I said, relax. I'm just saying, is it a sepulcher? Let's be clear, Arimathea. So God stood there and. I said but Colossians 2, 15 Ephesians 1, far above it was clear all principalities, power, might and dominion. How can you say those far above Herod? How ordering some guy from home Would deal with error. Now you don't need anything. Super deal with Herod. Herod. Simple war. In fact, poor coup will take away Herod. He said, no, no. All I just know is that demonic thing people will teach that Jesus went to hell. I said, no, let's forget hell. He went to the place of the dead. He said, yes, the place of the dead.

I agree with that one. For three days. I said, was he the only one there? I mean, they just created him. He just did a bungalow for you for. So when he comes, this was Jesus. When he comes. You know, you know, sometimes you know, when you are not brother, when you are not up against something, when you're up, you are down in against it. Cool down, cool down. Look at Colossians 1. For by him were all things created that are in heaven, that are in earth, visible and invisible. Thrones, dominions, principalities, powers. He talks about invisible thrones, dominions, principalities, powers. All things were created by him and for him. Now, by saying this, the New Testament purpose identifies with an hierarchy in the supernatural world geography. So which means that using geographical terms, territorial terms, there is a supernatural cosmic geography in scripture.

You have to identify with it. The New Testament identifies with it. Principalities, powers. Why would Jesus say, all authority is given me in heaven and on earth. So this language is definitely Old Testament language. Job 32, That's the Elohim concept, the plurality of God's supernatural beings with an hierarchy. That's an Genesis 1:15, 16. To rule in the day, to rule in seasons and times. 2032. And verse 17, he says the sacrifice unto devils was shedding, actually is better entities. Shedims S H E D I M. Let me read the Septuagint of that for you. Now this says the sacrifice to demons, which I disagree with a bit because the word shatib there deals more with a powerful authority in a certain area. Zerubbabel chapter 4 gives an idea of that. In verse 19, the host of heaven.

Now, the moment you use host, Seba T S E B A that's military terms. It has ranking. It has location, military terms, ranking locations. So when the New Testament, Colossians 1:16 talks about thrones, right? Thrones and authorities. The word kourotes K U R I O T E s is someone who rules a place. Thrones rules a place. That's host of heaven. Language. Hosts of the supernatural world rules a place, thrones, dominions, exilia is the use of power or left from office. He reached for an official. An official. So 1st Corinthians 15 and verse 24. It says, the kingdom of God, even the Father, when he shall have put down all rule, all authority and power. Rule, authority and power. It brings them in subjection. He must wait until I put all the enemies under his feet, everything under him, rule, authority and power.

Ephesians 1:21. This is about the death of Jesus again. So how would you identify death of Jesus? You not talk about this. These are supernatural things. Far above all principalities, power, might and dominion. Ephesians 3 and 10. To the intent now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places. Ephesians 6:12. Wrestle not against flesh and blood is too clear, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world. You know, when I was younger, I saw a group of them together. Hagin explained this in what's his book again, Triumphant Church. But there was a series of God that done the believer's authority, that these are groupings. So they are not the same principalities and powers are not the same rulers of the darkness of this world.

It means, therefore, that the worldview of a New Testament author retains the worldview of the Old Testament author. What has changed, guys? Is not the worldview. No, no. What has changed is not the world, sorry, is our worldview. And you know, the fact that you deny something does not mean it's not existing. In fact, the more you are denying it, the more authority it has because you are denying reality. And you know, whenever people say they know the world, the moment they see anything that looks like a manifestation, they say, this is not. And you have this. There's this strange thinking. Anything that looks weird cannot be God. And no, no, no. One guy like that. We have the discussion 2007. The guy is reformed theologian. Why do we seem to engage this once more? I'll tell you why.

I met a guy on the plane one day. I was going from one place to another, was not in Nigeria. So he saw me. I was reviewing one of our recent books. I think it's one of these are God series. So he saw it. Now, the guy, the way the guy was, he was. He had tattoo around him, he was sagging his jeans and he was looking very funny. So he now said to me, he said, do you know about this? I said, yeah. He said, maybe the wrath of God or something. So I now explained to him about the Old and New Testament and all the. So, you know, was curious. Now later I found out that he had even been to Bible schools. He was a pastor, you Know left the ministry and all that was I found out after the conversation.

So he now said these kind of things you are doing. Said unfortunately that it's those who are. We call them Calvinists and reform. They are the ones that do this kind of studies. Said unfortunately, I mean charismatics don't give a bother. I say it's not true. I am charismatic. Extremely. No, so extremely fully charismatic. And I've given my entire life to this. Oh yeah. But if we can have more people have such light, you know, and it will help, you know, the boy the guy was backsliding that was smack in the ministry from what I see and all that. But his major concern was there's not much studies. So because people are endeavored to study, they now have anti supernatural stand. It can't be God.

One even told me he said the Holy Ghost cannot be in charge of something that he was talking about rejoicing. He said, when you are losing your mind, say look at me. Do I look at someone that lost his mind before? So I'm talking about you. Say no, don't patronize me. I'm one talking. I said, my lifestyle is in rejoicing. I said, you laugh every day. Has anybody accused you of losing your mind? So it's in church that mind is lost. Say no, just this weird thing. People are rolling on the floor. I say, is it your body? You're very crazy. So there was one person like that. Just put it on. Say the power of God is not when you are running on the floor in prayer. He said it is. It is. You are wrongly taught.

I just went on the person's wall. I said, I rolled on the floor last week, you know, and those kind of things are so stupid. I had to correct somebody when he was trying to say something. He said, he said the power of God is in the world. He said it's not on a man falling down. I said, come, if you keep talking like that, you and the power of God, you say bye to yourselves. You can correct an excess. But you see, I usually frown at those who correct an excess or something they've never experienced. You don't even know what you are saying is excessive. How do you know something is excessive that you have not even practiced? You want to. I mean a guy went on and now was explaining tongues. I asked him a question, do you speak with tongues?

He said no, said bye. He said, he said the tongues that people are speaking today. He said it's not the original one. I said, have you heard the original one before? He said no. Said, the original one is not. This is all this gibberish you're just saying. I said, agreed. The original one you are talking about, have you heard it before? He said no. Who do not help? Is there nobody? So you're just funny like all the time. They explained to me that healing is just a feeling that God has stopped healing the sick that gave. I said, they talking to somebody who has been healed. I said, go and tell who. I've never been healed. They will believe you me, I've been healed. You don't think I know what happened to, you know, very stupid.

But the point is this, you know, I mean, it's important that we do not fall in that trap. Now people are talking about excess and I really don't think it's an excuse. Excess can lead you to disobedience. The truth is the New Testament author retains that world. It's still the New Testament world. Now the question is it our worldview? 2:10 Colossians 1:16 will be there. Colossians 2:10 is the head of all principality and power. Ark is the head of all principality and power. The same phrase. So where this coming from the old Testament, Deuteronomy 32 and verse 8 and 9, When the most high, the buyer to the nations, the inheritance. They have a very strong argument against this. I'll present it sometime here. It doesn't. I'm not seeing an agreement with it. I don't. But it's a good argument to read, understand.

One professor sent it to me and we argued about it for a while last year. So I guess it is something you need to know. And then when he separated the sons of Adam, he said, the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel. The lost portion is his people, Jacob's daughter of inheritance. So we said there was a time that the nations which has to do with territories were given over to supernatural beings. Does the New Testament identify with it? Yes, it does, by using principalities. Principalities is cosmic, is geographical powers, thrones. So New Testament identifies with an unseen hand in the nations. The New Testament identifies with such. So when I go to preach now, I'm not asking you to say I you who is the principality here.

When I go to preach the gospel, I must know. Paul says, we wrestle not against flesh and blood. That's why I'm of the firm opinion that test of the local power is in destruction. This is where it is that the nations of the world were divided to professor and power. That's why I say they were created by him and for him. The New Testament author retains that worldview. Do we retain that worldview today? If we don't, that means our worldview is not biblical. If our worldview is not supernatural, there is not biblical. Now would fall into the error of being superstitious. Right? But our worldview must be biblical. So we have principalities, power. Look at how Paul describes the death of Jesus. Let's go back to Ephesians 1 in the resurrection of Jesus.

Now notice what is all this 4 in 19, the exceeding greatness. Now all the words in 19 are comparative. Exceeding greatness. Why would you use super balloon? That means you are making a comparison. Ephesians 1:19. Exceeding greatness of his power towards one who believe according to the working of his mighty power which he wrote in Christ. Now notice that it is eight comparison. You cannot. He's not talking about the exceeding greatness of his power in comparison to Herod and Pilate. No, no, no. It tells you the exceeding greatness comparison in 20 raise him from the dead, set him at his own right hand in the heaven. That means the powers we are referring to are heavenly in nature. Then he says in 21 far above, because it's heavenly.

Principalities and power might dominion every name that is named, not only in this world, but in that which is to come. Now we know that is what God is building. The end of the world. He had put all things under his feet and gave the end of all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. So if you teach redemption the work of Christ and you don't identify this, it's handmade. Something happened in the three days and it was in the heavens. Something happened that was in the heavenlies. I'm going to show you on Friday that in the incarnation for the host of heaven to show up and you saw light the stars, something also happened in the heavenlies. And whatever happened in the heavenly two years, the host of darkness were not aware.

So which means that you know, just like we said, there are heights in the supernatural world, you must know it. And we said, if everything is supernatural, why are not even applying the basic natural skills? Say you are becoming superstitious. I'd rather be superstitious than be an idiot and not know that this world is largely supernatural. We also have the word demons. Now, demons is a bit of a problem because I mentioned this earlier in the series. It's not a direct translation. It's a translation, which means that the translation you will need to go through different video is not direct translation from the Old Testament. The word demons usually is within what is usually called the second Temple period, just before Jesus came, where new technologies came and all that. But we'll talk about that later.

So that's it's not a translation but a transliteration. You have demons words like diamon, D a I M o n or D a I M o N I O n. Now again, a diamond is a divine being. It can be good and evil, interestingly, but this person uses it majorly for evening spiritual entities. Now it's a pre modern times explanation of foreign gods, supernatural beings that are foreign to Israel. Isaiah 65:11. You are they that forsake the Lord, that forget my holy mountain. Holy mountain is temple. And prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number. Psalm 90. Troop that number. Let me read a bit of the Septuagint for you. Septuagint? Look at the September me and you will forget my holy mountain and prepare a table for a demon. So the word truth there is demon.

Psalm 90 and verse 6. Now don't forget that the Septuagint is a Greek translation. So it's a transliteration too. What I'm having here is a translation. Psalm 90 and verse 6. In the morning it flows and goes up, in the evening it cuts down and withered. Verse 6. No, We can look at Psalm 106:1 of Psalm 96, verse 5. For all the gods of the nations are idols. But the LORD made the heavens. All the gods of the nations are idols. Psalm 96. The 7. Psalm 95:5. For all the God of nations are demons, and the Lord made her. They are demons. Deuteronomy 32:17. We've been there earlier. Psalm 106. 36. They served their idols, which were a snare unto them. Psalm 106, 36. They served their camp idols. Isaiah 13, verse 21. Isaiah 13, verse 21.

The wild beasts of the desert lie there. Their houses are full of doleful creatures. The house that dwelleth there, and satires shall dance there. And it goes on. Let me read this from Septuagint for you again. Isaiah 13, Verse 21 1. All right, it says, and wild animals will rest there. The houses will be filled with sound. Sirens will rest there. Sirens will rest there, and divine beings will dance. The word satire is that divine beings will dance also. Called goat demons. And so these are what the New Testament will call unclean spirits. Not because they dirty the place. Unclean spirits means unholy. Right. They are no longer for God. Right. Rebellious. So unclean spirit doesn't mean. So when I get to a place where the gutter is not unclean spirit. Here, unclean spirit basically just means it's no longer serving God.

That's what of kings, Peter. Then let's keep the one for angels. Agelos. Agelos is, like we said, a descriptive term. So when you have angels in the New Testament are not just one being. Angels are the New Testament explaining. Okay, let me show you properly. When you hear angels in New Testament, you can break them down into Prince Pisces. Power, might, dominion and. Yeah, and thrones, authorities. That's what angels will sound. So when Paul says that we shall judge angels First Corinthians 6, 3 and 4, he refers to all those wheels. Colossians 1 Again, 16. Does the New Testament retain the wall of the Old Testament? Is does. And its worldview, principalities, powers, thrones, dominions. Now look at the world principalities. And you have the word Akon A R C H O N is taken from the Hebrew sa f a r a prince.

Daniel 10:13, a prince. Be careful when they call you prince, but the prince of the kingdom of Persia. So you can say principality. Verse 21, Michael your prince. That's not you, Michael or Michael your principality. Then Daniel 12:1, the great prince. You see, Great prince. And that's where you have the word principality. So this is what Paul will have in mind, or had in mind in Romans 8:38 when he says, and persevere neither death nor life, nor angels. Agelas. I'll skip that because we said we've done some definitions of angels or principalities. Notice all powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor heights, nor death, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.

Again, the question is, does the New Testament author retain the worldview of the Old Testament author? Yes. So he's saying to us here that our redemption and our righteousness has to do or has a contending force of principalities and power. The Prince of the Old Testament. We've been 1st Corinthians 15:24 already. Ephesians 1:21, Ephesians 6:12, Ephesians 3:10, Colossians 1:16, Colossians 2:10. Look at Colossians 2:15 have been spoiled. Principalities and powers. Now principality is a prince. Over eternity, Right. Over a territory. All. All. Which means that in all the world, Jesus in his death and resurrection, dealt with all locations at once. All locations. That's why the Gospel is for all those locations. First Corinthians 2. So the New Testament audience of Paul and the apostles will be reading Daniel when he says principles and power, right? They'll be reading Isaiah, 1st Corinthians 2.

And verse 6. How we speak wisdom among them that are perfect. Not the wisdom of this world, not the princes of this world that come to nothing. Earthly rulers or supernatural. We'll see why they are combined later. Look at verse eight, which none of the princes of this world knew. For had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Let me show you something so that we will see the intersection too. Acts 4 In Acts 4, when Peter and John were threatened by the elders. Acts 4 in verse 18. Now notice who called them. Verse 15, the council. The council, that is the Jewish leaders. Acts 4:1, the captain of the temple, the Sadducees. Acts 4:1 Acts 4:6, Annas the high priest and Cephas, John and Alexander, the kindred of the high priest.

So these are supposed to be religious authorities. So they threatened them not to not preach the name of Jesus. 21. So when they had further threatened them, they let them, finding nothing how they might punish them because of the people. For all men they will thank God for that which was a miracle. Now, when they reported what the chief priests had said in verse 23, look at the text. They went through O Lord our God. Now, if you are familiar with the Old Testament, O Lord our God, direct Old Testament. Now is that comparative? Huh? Oh, come on. Now, when you say O Lord our God, that's Yahweh among the lords, right? We've done that study already which has made the heavens and the earth. That's Old Testament language. And the sea. And you think they're talking about geographical sea? No.

And all that is in it is this a natural language or supernatural world? Very well. It now says, who by the mouth of your servant David and said that means they saw it directly from the host of darkness and said, why did the Ethan rage even? That's Psalm 2. These are Jews talking to them. And the people imagine a vain thing. That means that they had understood that the nations even outside God's covenant nation need not be natural. So they call those guys Ethan. And they do. That's Old Testament language. While even said the kings of the earth stood up and the rulers were Gathered look at me guys. The people talking about non kings, the kings of the earth. That means the rulers of the powers of darkness. He says and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his anointed.

So which means they saw beyond the natural. So Paul says we wrestle not against person the moment they get into bitterness, frustration. And you say I'm just frustrated, I'm just something. Tell us what said he when he went to India. He said he and his wife Daisy they just, they couldn't. They didn't say they came back to America. They were so distraught. They felt God didn't call them and you know and that really that's supernatural. You just think maybe and you are just. You just find also distractions. You are just upset. You just, you are just and you just think it's natural. No, it's not just upset. Just you know, you fight with yourself. Leader say I don't know must we go? I don't mind you think you are.

He said he just saw William Branham and he just saw the miraculous and said we can do this too. That was all he did. So we're going back hand himself with the word of God and went back because that frustration is supernatural. You live with Joy and Joseph frustrated and he's just like I don't have time again. You are so eager. Peter and John said no this is the rulers of the darkness of this world. Because he threatened them if we see you do said this is supernatural. So just have called the uncle. I was just preaching. The uncle is deputy governor another principality. So uncle said no, nobody can stop you. It's a country. You have your rights. You have your rights. Nobody can just calls the to the general.

So by the time you are done with that one then one day you now goes for one meeting. You just say that's your church. Must you meet. They went by the way of the flesh. That's why I said modernity as good as it is has robbed us of a lot. Many of us don't think our worldview is not supernatural at all. At all. That's why a Christian will marry a non Christian and he will be explaining why in the Old Testament it's called idol worship. Say no. What's idol worship? I say I love somebody say idol worship. No, no I don't believe in that. That's being superstitious. Yeah I understand it's not a born again or she's not a born again. It's also a dance. It's not true. There is also the woman. He and she.

I know she's not, but I just think that somebody fears God and. As after all, it's better than many Christians. I think you have not been attacked. If you go to number 24 5, you don't want to do like that. Go and read it. I won't tell you. Go, go and read it. Whatever you see there, believe it. I won't tell you. What are you talking about? Say no. Somebody called me on the phone and he tried to explain and explain said, look, I know that God has a plan, but can't God just do something? I said we'll do what. So they saw it in a supernatural way. You. Your worldview can't change. If your worldview is not what we are reading, then there's trouble. It's a supernatural world. We wrestle not against flesh and blood.

So don't think that frustration is just because of traffic. There's traffic. How am I feeling this sad? It's just traffic. Lagos traffic. Particularly the one from where you are in the corduroy. Traffic. There's no way out. You just stay. You know, I used to get out of the car and just walk. I probably just move in. I don't work. You don't get just upset then one disciple just calls you sir. I was trying to reach you. I have a question. But I just left you. What kind of person are you asking me again? I mean the one I thought you back later. It's 10 o'. Clock. We wrestled them against misdiagn powers. Sorry, so we have such. There's no denial of such things. Look at Luke 8, Mark 5:7. Sorry, Mark 5:7 and move as quickly as possible.

Notice again, this was in an area. These are the son of Moses. Now when you say Most High. Most High is Old Testament, right? Most High is relative. Now when you use Most High is territorial. Deuteronomy 32, verse 8. I adore thee. By God. It has the word legion. Look at it. Send them out of the country. It's territorial. Out of the country. Look it, Same thing. Torment me not. Son of the Most High. Most High. Elion is used for Yahweh amongst the gods. So these definitely are the Old Testament references to the Elohims. So the New Testament author identified with the world as supernatural. The New Testament author identifies with the world as supernatural. Our idea of it can't change. Except like I mentioned, if our worldview is altered. Let's see the Last 1.

Galatians 4 Even when it comes to doctrine, teaches beliefs, I'm saying stuff like religions. Galatians 4, Three. When were children were bondaged under the elements. What elements? Here is what stoichia s t o I s s t y c h e I a. Now Stoicha is like an astral deity, spiritual beings or something like astrology. About is about astrology, cosmic deities. Now go back a bit. Now why did he say this? Because the context was talking about the Jewish observation of these months and day and years, which comes from the Old Testament. And if you go to Romans chapter four, you noticed that Israel was at stake. Different points shape those deities. So he said, we're under those elements to cheer. Then he says in verse eight, how when you knew not God, you did service unto them, which by nature were no gods.

But now, after you have known God, or rather known of God, how you turn again to the weak and begged elements, whereunto you desire again to be in born. You observe days and months and times and years. These months, times and years. So these are astrological beliefs and practices. Some people just say today, I'm Capricorn. What about Capricorn? Don't be an idiot. A new creature. Okay, be looking at newspaper and say Cancer first. What's Cancer? Today Cancer will fall in love, you lose money. The same people will deny the work of the Holy Ghost, but they'll be looking at vanguard. So today I should be careful, I should not laugh too much. So you have Sochia, 2nd Corinthians 11. I'll start to close. You have doctrines. As from the powers of darkness. In verse three talks about subtility.

And in verse four another gospel, another spirit. But look at verse 15 or verse 13. For as much as there are false apostles, deceitful workers shall come to the apostles of Christ. And no marvel for Satan himself is transformed into angel of light. Is of no great thing, if his ministers also shall minister of righteousness, whose end shall be according to their works. So he identifies doctrines as also spiritual. First Timothy 4. Very quickly. 3. Sorry. 4. Now the Spirit speaks especially that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils. So we must handle Bible teaching in our life. Seducing spirits seduces every deceptive to deceive. And doctrines of demons them on. So the hold of supernatural beings is not just hold somebody's neck and be twisting it.

You know, of course there are weird things that do happen. It also comes into belief systems, philosophies and that's why we have to be careful of what we read in the media. I for one, I submit that almost non existence is a neutral information. It's almost non existent. I'll be careful what you watch and the things that you read. So the New Testament author, does he retain the worldview of the Old Testament? Yes, he does. So if we are New Testament believers, as we claim to be, our worldview cannot change. For example, when Jesus spoke about love of money and he used mammonias. Mammonias is spiritual, which means an entire system can be built on the supernatural. It will appear just logical. An entire system can be built in that light. So we'll continue there on Friday.

But the truth is the worldview has to be altered. The worldview of being a world person where there's little or no information about spiritual world is extremely anemic. Spiritually speaking, it lacks blood. Mind my grammar. It's ridiculous. From prayer to worship to even what we eat and drink, it's all a part of our worship of God. Bless up.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/