So when he said the gift of righteousness is Jesus himself and what he did. So it's not a personal gift. Rather, it's referring to an act of God that is a gift to us. Righteousness, therefore, is an act of God that is a gift to us. So that usually is so righteousness is, as a noun, is what ought to be. So let me explain it from a judicial point of view. So you get it. It is not used our prism of using speech for criminals, okay, that somebody stole someone's house or stole someone's money. And then we say, you told the person's money. They will put this guy behind bars for stealing money. Then somebody says, no, don't worry, let me go and stay in the jail for him. So he goes to substitute himself.

Then when he comes out, he says, discharged and acquitted. That's very narrow Very narrow. But the overall bigger picture is you put that money right, you now give it to the owner. That is dayakushude where it ought to have been. Diakoshude. So that's the bigger picture of the subjects. Righteousness. So we have the adjective dakaios where you have the word righteous. Righteous. Again, let's run through the phrase righteous. Once again we'll go through the words of Jesus. Matthew 9. 13 I have not come to call the righteous, But sinners to repentance. Matthew 10:41 he that receives a righteous man in the name of a righteous man. Matthew 13 Righteous men of the Old Testament desire to see the things that you see and hear the things you hear. They cannot see it.

Matthew 13:43 the righteous, he says, shall shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of the Father. Matthew 23:28. You appear righteous unto men proper. Matthew 23:29 because you build the tombs of the prophets and garnish the sepulchers of the righteous. Matthew 23:35 the blood of righteous Abel. Matthew 23:37 sorry, same word 35 the blood of righteous Abel. The blood or the righteous blood shed upon the earth. Matthew 25:37 Then shall the righteous answer him, those who have done the right thing. Matthew 25:46 the righteous is unto life eternal. Don't forget the word. Life eternal is the word Zoe anyon the life of the age to come. Mark 2:17. Luke 5:32 the same words of Matthew 9:13 have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Look at John 7:24. Judge not according to appearance, but judge righteous judgment, proper judgment.

John 17:25 O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee, but have known thee, and this have known thou hast sent to it. O Righteous Father. So you can see that the concept of righteousness, or the righteous again, has to do with what is being done, or what has been done. So let's look at the book of Romans. Romans 2:5. Another different word here. Romans 2:5 after thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasures up unto thyself wrought against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. What there is Darkocrisia D I k a I o k r I s I a d I k r I o k r I s I a. Righteous judgment. Now look at Romans 3:10. There is non righteous.

Romans 5:7 shall a righteous man die yet peradventure for a good man, some would even dare to die. Romans 5:19 very critical for by one man's obedience, many were made sinners. By the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Made righteous. 2Nd Thessalonians 1:5. So when you see the subject of righteousness, you must ask what was done for that phrase to have been used. 2Nd Thessalonians 1:5amanifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that you may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you also suffer. Talking of the righteous judgment of God verse 6 for it is a righteous thing that God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you so what is right is that a man gets what he wants, what he desires, what he has worked for.

First Timothy 1:9 the law was not made for righteous men because when he said the law wasn't made for righteous men, don't forget we mentioned the judicial laws, the commercial laws and all of that. And that's why he lists them. Who is he trying to let's look at it. Who was Moses legislating for? 1St Timothy 1 who was given the laws for lawless, disobedient 1st Timothy 1:9 ungodly sinners, unholy profane, murderers of fathers, murderers of mothers, men slayers, those who kill others, warmongers for them that they fell asleep to mankind for men stealers, kidnappers, that liars, perjured persons. So that's basically the people he wrote laws for. So second Timothy 4:8 God the righteous judge now if you look at where God is called the Righteous Judge, he is not righteous because he executes punishment.

It's because he allows man be he doesn't impose his will. That's exactly why it's called righteous judgment of God. He does not impose his will, his wish that all men be saved, but he righteously judges you if you don't want to be saved. Second Timothy 4:8 God the righteous Judge Hebrews 11:4 so within the context of what God does is where we call him Righteous Judge away from the presence and the power of God is called righteous judge. Romans 2:5 why is he called righteous judge? Because Romans 1:28:32 says he gave them up to lust. He gave them over. That is why that is right. So going to hell is righteous on the side of God. If people don't believe the gospel and they go to hell, it is righteous on the part of God.

Where sin destroys men out of unbelief, it is a righteous judgment on the part of God. Hebrews 11:4 Abel who was righteous? James 5:16 the prayer of the righteous man. 1St Peter 3:12 the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous. 1St Peter 4:18 Scarcely will the righteous be saved. 2Nd Peter 2. 8 Righteous lot. First John 2:1 Jesus Christ, the righteous who is the proposition for our sins. That's why it's called righteous. First John 2:29 is righteous. First John 3:7 Then 1 John 3:12 Listen carefully, please. He loves his brothers Cain and Abel. Now so this word darke is an adjective. It describes an action. So every time you see the word righteous or righteous men, it is to describe a person or an action. So let's run through another word or set of words. Justify. Justified. Justification. That's the word.

Dia Kaio D I K a I O O Matthew 11:19. Matthew 11:19 the son of man came. That's the word. These are verbs now or not necessarily. Matthew 11:19 came, eating and drinking. And they say, behold a man glutinous, a wine barber, a friend of publican are sinners, but we wisdom is justified by our children approved, made right. Matthew 12:37 by your words you shall be justified by your words you shall be condemned. Approved or not approved. Luke 7:35 is just like Matthew 11:19. So just paraphrase it. Let's look at that man in the temple. Luke 18:14 he says in 13 provide for me a sacrifice. Jesus said that this man goes to his house justified than the other. Justified, approved. What he has just done is approved. Luke 18:14 Acts 13:39. Darkayo to justify Acts 13:39.

And by him all that believe were justified from all things from which they could not be justified. Two words, one word in two places by the law of Moses. Justified by Jesus they are justified, Made right. Now another word is the word just. Matthew 5:45 gives his reign to the just and the unjust. Matthew 13:49. So shall it be at the end of the world the angel shall come forth and severe the wicked from amongst the just. The wicked from amongst the just. Luke 14:14 the resurrection, the just resurrection of the just. Luke 15:7. Likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repents more than 99 just persons who have repented, so that repentance is to do the right thing, or to have been seen to do the right thing. John 5:30 My judgments are done right they are just.

Acts 3:14 the death of Jesus now Acts 3:14 you deny the holy One and the Just One who has done the right thing. Acts 7:52. We showed before of the coming of the just one that is Hebrews Habakkuk 2:4 in your mind. Acts 10:22 Cornelius a just man. Why? Because Acts 10 says he gives alms always. Acts 10:2. It's by what is being done that a man is called just. Acts 22:14. The God of our fathers has chosen thee, that thou will know his will and see that just one and you hear the voice of his mouth that just one Jesus. So Habakkuk 2:14 again, 2:4. Sorry. Look at the epistles on the word just. Romans 2:13. Not the heirs of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified. Just one who has done the right thing.

The doers of the law shall be seen as approved. Romans 3 4. Let God be true, and every man a liar, that thou mayest be justifying thy sins and might overcome when thou art judged, let God be true. Romans 3:24 being justified, truly justified we're looking at the word justified, actually justified. Romans 3:28Aman is justified by God's faithfulness without the deeds of the law. I skipped one. Romans 3:20 by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified. Justified. Romans 4:2 for if Abraham were justified by works Romans 5:1 being justified by faithfulness, now we are peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 8:30 whom he called, he also justified. So 1st Corinthians 4:4. I know nothing by myself, for I'm yet not justified. Maybe I'm not hereby justified, but he that judges me is the Lord.

First Corinthians 6:11 justified by the Spirit of God in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, or by and by the Spirit of our law. Galatians 2:16. Galatians 2:16 so what is done is why a man is called just and justified, or his actions are called justified. Approved what is right, or found in the right. Don't forget we said it must contrast with something. Galatians 2:16 Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law. The B part okay, that we might be justified by the faithfulness of Christ, not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. 17 While we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners. Is therefore Christ the minister of sin? God forbid. Galatians 3:11 the just shall live by faith.

If you have done the right thing, you will live by faith, and you discover that. Why is he called just? Because he obeyed the Scriptures. Jesus Christ. Now Jesus. Galatians 3:24 that we might be justified by his faithfulness when faith came, we are justified by his faithfulness. Galatians 5:4 Christ will come of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are justified by the law, you are falling from grace. First Timothy 3:16 this is a great mystery as of the church now without controversy. Great is the mystery of godliness. God was made manifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit seen of angels, preached of Gentiles, believed only in glory, received up so I believed on the world received up in glory, So that 16 can reliably have to do with the church. We are put right by the Spirit. Titus 3:7.

Being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. James 2:21. Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son? Upon what? Look at that word justified. Was his action not approved what he did? Was it not the right thing? James 2:24 you see then that how by works a man is justified, and not by faith alone. So which means we have righteous works, righteous deeds and right believing. So there is the right believing, and then there's a right doing believing in the right. James 2:25 Raya the allot was justified by works when she received the messengers and had sent them out another way. So I just read justified. Now just read text around justified and then just from the four Gospels look at the word just again from the Epistles.

Romans 1:17 the just shall live by faith the just one shall live by faith and why is it called just? Romans 1:5 the obedience with the faithfulness of God, where we also believe. Romans 5:19 by the obedience of one. Romans 5:8 Christ died for us. Romans 4:25 so he's called the just, and is alive by God's faithfulness. Romans 2:13. Romans 2:13 for not the heirs of the law are just before God, but the doers shall be justified just before God. Now Romans 3:8 is a very different word. It's corroborated in Hebrews 2. Two is the word endos E N D I K O s whose damnation is just.