All right, Luke 24:25. And he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself. Now look at Nehemiah 8. Nehemiah, chapter 8, verse 7, the B part. He caused the people to understand the law. And the people stood in their place, verse 8. And they read in their book in the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. So we saw that the concept of teaching is to enlighten and the use of the word law. The Torah should not be given a fixated phrase.

So when I say the law of Moses, at any usage, I must be specific. Was it his use of. Let me say, when he said the law of sin and death, there it will mean. That depends on how we look at it. It will mean what he said because of their sin and the function of death. What he said because of sin, for example, it could dovetail into the use of symbolisms and all of that. So it depends on how that phrase is framed properly. The law of Moses is positive in faith and to the unbelieving man is negative. So it depends on how that is configured. Sometimes it's a question of translation. Let me give you an idea. Now, I have this Septuagint. Septuagint is the Hebrew in the Greek. I don't exactly use it so much.

I rather just do my own translation straight from Hebrew to English. But let me give you an idea of how translations, when you understand language, what? Come look at Genesis. Just a few things. Now look at verse, Genesis 1:2. The earth was without form and void. That's what you will have in King James. So some translators, like Dicks, will say, well, the earth was created, Satan came, and all that happened. But look at this. Yet the earth was invincible. You can't see anything. That's what the Septuagint interpreted. The word tohobuho and unformed. And darkness was over the abyss. And the divine wind, Spirit of God, was being carried along over the water. That is one look at 26. And God said, let us make humankind according to our image, according to our likeness. Humankind. King James says, man. Genesis 2:18.

It's not good that man is alone. Let us make him a helper corresponding to him. Corresponding to him, that is the incarnation, a savior just like him. So a corresponding to him, a helper corresponding to him. Now, again, if you look at the Hebraism use of words and say, let us make man in our image, that now shows you why that is a redemptive term in use of language. Because it wasn't referring to that immediate Adam. You can see Genesis 5. I want you to open your King James so you see what I'm saying. 5 1. This is the book of generations. That's what you are going to have. That's the word Genesis, the seventh Genesis. This is the book of the origin of human beings, origin of evil, and all of that.

On the day that God made Adam, he made him according to divine image. Now look at this concept in verse three. Adam lived 230 years and became a father according to his form and according to his image, and named his name Seth, saith verse five. Or. Yeah, verse four, the days of Adam after he became the father of sin. So that means from this translation, the word image was given a near perfect meaning. The image refers to your son. So which means that Genesis 1:26 28 is a redemptive preposition. Let us make man. You don't use let us make man. There's already man. Let us now make man. That is a redemptive term in image. And Moses uses the. The Salem, which is the acorn in the Greek, which is used for idols.

Idols is when you bring an image of God, image of a deity image. You say, now this image will be in mankind. So therefore, the interpreter of scripture, who is a teacher, has the role of climbing the mountains. We elicited, we showed the other time we spoke about the grammar mountain. It has to go by. Okay. Psalm 78, Verse one. Give here, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. That's teaching. Then in verse two, he says, I will open my mouth in a parable where you have the Greek word, the Hebrew word mashaal, and then the Greek word for Parables, Matthew 13:34, 35, I will utter dark sayings of old. Dark sayings. Shiddah, I will utter dark sayings. Now, there's a contrast there. When you use parable, masha means like unto or an illustration.

Then you say dark sayings. That means the essence of the parables is to ensure it is no longer dark. The parables are the answers to the dark saints. The dark saints, Chichida, or a riddle, only occurs in the heart of those who don't understand. And so Jesus said in Matthew 13, because seeing they cannot see, hearing they cannot hear. Unto you, it is given to know the mousterion of the kingdom. So they know what is a mystery in the heart of the unsaved. It's given to know. To them it is not given. So see a contrast there. Dark sayings and parables are opposites. So the essence of the parables is to make known the dark scenes. Look at Proverbs. Proverbs 1, verse 6. To understand a proverb, Mashaal and the interpretation and the words of the wise and their dark saints.

So the essence of the proverbs is to understand the dark scenes. Proverbs is the word parable. So a parable is given to understand the mystery, dark scenes, something that has to be explained. So it's a dark saying because they had to keep telling them. But go Back to Psalm 78 again, as of old is from the beginning. So the law is from the beginning, from Genesis. So can we reliably then say that what happened in the Garden of Eden was the law of faith and the law of sin and death? The law of faith and the law of sin and death. So the New Testament teacher must teach the Old Testament. And his conclusions must be. The epistles must be at par with the epistles. New Testament teaching therefore will be to explain the narratives, events, history, very vitally, theology of the Old Testament.

The Bible teacher must not allow emotions be cloud his judgment. We said earlier that where information is compromised, no matter how good a communicator you are, you have missed the mark. And where a communication is bad, if information is adequate, then the job is done. So we mustn't play down oratory, the use of words properly, or being able to talk well, it's good because it helps to communicate. But oratory without proper information, just sophistry going nowhere. So I must be able to combine my ability to use words with the correct information. I was thinking the other week about what we are doing in the Book of James. We are not done yet. We are still trying to work out the transition in the Book of James.

And you know, I was torn between, okay, retaining a very scholastic use of words or going as colloquial as possible. And I said to myself, what kind of a transition does he want to be? Is he a teacher's translator? Which I really think we should do a teacher's translation where the teacher of the world is. His work is simplified, yet not simplistic, you know, because you have to ask yourself, what do I want to achieve in this communication? Who am I talking to? Okay, so I do believe that we should have as many translations as possible, depending on the audience. However, where I think the issue is where translations now have serving diverse theologies, then there's a problem.

And theology can be as sensitive as the way word is explained, the way tenses are used, the way verbs are used, the moment verbs are used differently. The theology has changed every you. Some people accuse some of us or some of you or some people of trying to dot the I's and cross the T's of every theology you see. It's very vital. You actually need to dot the I's and cross the T's. You have to. And what I was saying the other day, I'm going to read a couple of things also about Calvinism. And why am I saying it? Because there is grains of theology in many, should I say, shades of church movements. That subtle acceptance of the. That translation of God's word which has been mishandled.

I believe like a, a man, doctor, rightly said, what's his name, doctor that he believes that the greatest injustice done to Scripture is the verses. You see, we may not know the import till you start seeing. Why did they break this up for you? Let's just know the way they treated the Torah in the Old Testament was such that they were practically in awe when it's being read and taught. So you don't just say, well, the most important thing is, just like I said, we have not handled the Bible well. We haven't, we haven't. So even the verses, the way that they are put requires much more. Now let me add this. In no way are we trying to denigrate the work of the King James or any other person. It's not easy to do what they have done in any way or format.

We're only saying it can be improved upon. Because a few misuse of verses here and there has led to untold difficulties in the way people understand God's Word. It has. So here we are, you know, faced with teaching the Word as though were there with the children of Israel and ensuring that what we will say to Israel in the wilderness is what we will say to Corinth almost 2000 years ago and to Lagos in 2020. This is the task of the Bible teacher today. The longer we are from the historical facts and when they happened, the more intense our work has to be. It has to be right then and right now. Anything we have to write or say, write then and write now. The Scripture cannot mean today what it never meant, when and where and to whom it was written.

So therefore it means that the writers of scriptures, tens of men, equally the interpreters of scripture, also tens of men, either the old or the new, wanted Scriptures to be read in a particular light. The question should be, in what light should the Bible be read? Now, I said that to say that any patient researcher, patient and honest researcher, will be one who has read the content. He will find some major things, just like every writing or book. He will find sub themes subsumed under the major themes. The honest truth is, if you read the Old Testament, and this is why the Psalms of David come into play, you will come into one conclusion. That God is gracious, he has tender mercies, and he has loving kindness. So we don't just arrive at God's love in a denial.

It looks like, okay, we're calling God is love in 1 John 4:8. Because there's a denial of what he has been doing before. No, the conclusion of God is love is an old Testament conclusion. First John 4:16. God is love. Perfect love casts out fair because there is no fear in love. First John 4, verse 16 to 19. So the question is, did he suddenly become loving the New Testament? No. Malachi 3 8. Look at Malachi 3 8. Because this is the conclusion of the daemonio of the Old Testament. When you properly interpret it, this is the conclusion. Don't forget the word musterion, the word Jesus used in Matthew 3:13, 11, Mark 4:11 and Luke 8:10. Unto you it is given to know the mysteries. A word that has 28 Greek renderings. Romans 11:25, Romans 16:25. First Corinthians 2:1. Yeah. First Corinthians 2:7.

Speak to work on the mystery. First Corinthians 14:2 about tongues. I discovered that. Let's explore that about tongues. When he says, he that speaks in tongues speaks not to men. For no man understands how beast in the spirit, he speaks mysteries. Now I need you to figure out what Paul is writing. Is it an exception on the use of mystery will come to us? Just hang it somewhere. Now, 1 Corinthians was in two year tongues. First Samuel 15:51. I show you a mystery. Now, so far, whether it's Romans 11:25, Romans 16:25. Okay. First Corinthians 2:1 and 7. The term musterion refers to the Old Testament. I show you what was not understood in the Old Testament. The Shidda, the dark saints. I show you the gospel. Is that revelation of the dark saints.

Dark saints are a function of those who did not believe, which means that because their audience was non believing their words will be a mystery not because they hid their words, but because their words was hidden from the heart of their audience. Now in 1 Corinthians 13, I skipped that verse 2. If I have knowledge, all the mysteries, that of course can be explained also as the Old Testament Colossians. So 1 Corinthians 14:2 stands out. Colossians 2. Let me miss that. Colossians 2 no, no. Efficiency 1. So efficiency 3 no, Verse 9 the fellowship of the mystery 3:4 the mystery of Christ Ephesians 5:32 the great mystery concerning Christ and the church Ephesians 6:20 or 6:19 the mystery of the Gospel. Colossians 2. Sorry 1:27 the mystery among the Gentiles Colossians 4, verse 3. The mystery of Christ.