John 21:17, where Peter himself sorrowed. 2Nd Corinthians 6:10. So there is a positive sorrow, just like Paul says you have not rather mourned. 1St Corinthians 5:3. Yeah. 2Nd Corinthians 6 and 10 are sorrowful, yet always rejoicing. 2 Corinthians 7:11. Please write this down. This is very key. Godly sorry, verse 10. Sorry. 2 Corinthians 7:10 Godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation love repent of. But the sorrow of the world works death. So there is a sorrow then verse 11. You sorrowed after a godly thought. So a believer's repentance when it comes to sin is practically. Practically to bear God's burden in that case, to bear God's burden. God's burden to sin is lament. Of course, you know, he doesn't stop at lament, just like says, my God, why have youe forsaken me?

Matthew 27:46, Psalm 22:1 when you lament at the wickedness of men, but of course it doesn't end there. He goes to the grave. He rose from the dead. But that lamentation is part of the Christian conduct because it is in the nature of God. Lament when. Of course, when you look at Ephesians 4 now, it says so that you will know it is positive, not negative in Ephesians 4. Are you following this, guys? Are you following this difference here is that you know or like a typical church service where I will go here and there. I'm not going straight, so I'm not going to. I won't branch anywhere. Just go straight to the point. Now verse, let all bitterness Ephesians 4:31 wroth anger. So it's not anger, okay? Clamor, evil speaking be put away with you for more malice.

Now for you to know what he's referring to. Be kind one to another, forgiving one another. Even as God. For Christ has forgiven, so the end point of that lamentation will still be forgiveness will still be the work of love. So it is a fruit of Love to lament. That's why Paul says, if you find a brother like this, having his brother's wife. Everybody has mourned among you know, you should mourn. There should be that godly. It's in the spirit of God to that lament. Jesus wept over Jerusalem. I don't want to go into the explanation. I heard about that. How Jesus went over Jerusalem and said, why? You don't know the time of your visitation. When Jesus wept before Lazarus grave, you know, he was still going to raise him from the dead. But he wept. Why is he weeping?

Because when you look at, you know, the product of sin and you see it, God will lament. I said, people have asked me, what is God doing in this pandemic? The first thing is he's lamenting. And the church should join him in doing the same thing. That lamentation is why we will pray and cry, is why we will support those people who are in, you know, trouble. You know, it's part of the Christian world to lament anyway. Is that why the book of lamentation, you lament so Lupio means you are practically lamenting. Says that grieve not, that is, do not cause to be a lament of the Spirit by walking in the flesh. So the converse of that is, somebody has offended you. He says, don't walk in the flesh. When you walk in the flesh, the spirit of God within you will lament.

So the flesh causes the spirit to lament, the flesh causes God to lament. So when you see grieve not the Holy Spirit, you would. Paul is writing galatians, sorry, Genesis 6, three out. That's. What is. That is the background of that statement. And of course, Genesis 3 and 4, does that make sense? So when you find those words, some. Some scholars will call it cryptic, that means there's something he's writing off in a short form. When you read Romans 3:23, of course, I don't want to delve much into this. I read for all I've seen and come short of the glory of God. And you say, what's the glory of God? I've heard all manner of things about that. I've come short of the glory of God.

They say, then the glory of God is not shining in your life as the world start shining. You see, when you see like that and then discover that you can't even fuel your car again, you see the glory of God. So the person who is selling the fuel to you is not a Christian. And then you, the believer, because of one day sin you have come short of having fuel in your car. The question we should ask ourselves is when we have glory and the fact the doxa, which is where in the Hebrew you have the word haboth, heaviness, or the weight, or the wheat, riches and the wealth. The background of all of this will be Psalm 72. I'll read a couple of glory texts for you. Psalm 72, verse 19. Let the whole earth be filled with his glory.

Psalm 29, verse 9. In his temple everyone speaks, says, glory to your temple. Habakkuk 2:14. The whole earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of God. As the waters covers the sea. Numbers 14:21. The whole earth is filled. Numbers 14:21. Let me read. That. Shall be filled with the glory of God. So the context of glory. Therefore you have as the waters covers the sea. And where do you get that from? That is the Abrahamic promise, the glory of God. And what is the glory of God? Of course you talk about the temple, all right, Where Moses built the temple and then the glory, the tabernacle. So the tabernacle will first and foremost be heaven and earth. We said that before, which is what we call the church ecclesia. Okay, so the glory of God.

Of course we have other shades, but points to that Abrahamic covenant or sorry, promise given to Abraham, fulfilled in thee shall all the nations of the earth be blessed. And then that's where he said, look at the standard decision. Can you number it? You sure you can't? So shall thy seed be. And this is the reason why to number Israel was a sin for many reasons, a few reasons. One of them is the promise of redemption. The promise of the covenant is that the whole earth will be filled. So when it says the waters cover the sea, the waters are the sea is basically saying that the glory of God firstly for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. It drives you therefore back to Genesis 12:3. And Genesis 12:3 drives you back to Genesis 1:26,28.

Male and female created in them that image of God, likeness of God. So the glory of God will be the image of God in man one. And then humanity found in that image the ecclesia. So when you say is the brightness of his glory, Hebrews 1, 2 and 3. The express image of his person. So you can't talk the glory of God without the image of God. You can't talk the glory and image of God without mankind found in the person of the promise. So for all I've seen And come short, of course, when I look at the waters covered the sea, don't forget that in Moses Description In Genesis 1:2, he says the Spirit of God was over the waters.

Fanim, the face of the waters, which is Genesis chapter 2, talks about the rivers of the Ephraim, rivers of Ethiopia, talking about the nations of the Earth. So therefore, all right, we have a duty to, you know, all these words to look out for the Old Testament. What is the promise being fulfilled here? What is the promise prophecy being fulfilled here? What is the subject matter being explained here? Without that background, we'll be reading our thoughts into Scripture. Let me once again let's go into a few of these details. I have said it to you many times that the Epistles are follow up tools. So let me give you a background. Somebody has been saved. You teach him regularly. So you want him to have something to remind him of what you taught him or what you usually teach him when you see him.

So in that regard, you send him a letter. Okay? That letter can be what you can call today an outline or a salmon note. By the way, let's look at maybe the book of Ephesians that really wasn't written to Ephesus. It was a general letter was taken across and you have the ones to Colosse, which Paul, because he was, I mean the ones that Paul was practically in jail, Second Timothy, Ephesians, Philippians, Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians are jail letters. And then you have second Timothy, the letters written from jail, and of course Philemon. So the ones that maybe said, well, I'll be with you shortly, that you know, Romans. And he said that it might not sure, they're not sure if ever got there, maybe got there, went to jail.

First and second Corinthians were already facing a lot of things, but he was a free man, you know, said he was going to come to them to show she was coming. Romans 1st and 2nd Corinthians, you know, then you have Galatians, of course, it wasn't anywhere there. That means the fourth and then four second Thessalonians, making seven of them outside that. And for Timothy, the other letters were written from incarceration, which means he had to write it from jail sometimes not sure whether I was going to see them at all or sometimes he did now, which means that the letters were not his first contact except Kolusi, where others had gone before him and taught them. The first thing he did, he does. When you ask what did they have before the letters, the 39 books, that was what was in their possession.

What was he studying with them? He didn't bring out Ephesians to teach them. He only wrote Ephesians because he wasn't present. If he were to be present, Ephesians will be his summon note the letter, the sermon will be embedded in the Old Testament books. So what we have in the epistles is the sermon notes, the pointers, indicators, the explanations, okay? But the teaching itself in the Old Testament books. So therefore our approach to the epistles must be firmly that the epistles are from the Old Testament books. We must be that firm. So and that's why I said that the phrase love Moses, the reason why his audience understood him was because it had been explained, it had been taught. So we want to now go back to their world and see what Paul would have done with the Old Testament books. Seeing these letters.

We have said we started the other day that all the New Testament writers hope you saw that they followed the Genesis principle. Did we all see that? Did you all see that? Predestination, foreknowledge before the foundation of the world from the beginning, all those ones are Genesis concepts. So which means that just like every prophet, we have said that the prophets are teachers of the Old Testament preachers that made use of revelation gifts because a good number of their truth were eschatological. They were predictive in nature. So therefore, if he taught now is before a Greek audience, sorry, a Roman audience, a Greek speaking audience where the language is different. So he needs to first of all translates.

The book of Genesis, which we have said is rich in the Hebrew language, Hebraism, that's the first background of the book of Genesis is also from the Eastern religion. I want you to pay very good attention now. I have this material. For example, I will read to you. I have a couple of things, but by the time in the written form, we're going to put it there in references. Now listen carefully to this. In all non biblical laws of the Near East, Ancient near east, okay? They are talking about the Genesis time, Exodus time. No major book dealt with tithing, though there were secondary documents that shows that Titan was a widespread practice of the ancient Near East. So Abraham was not. He wasn't carrying out a divine revelation when he gave tithes to Melchizedek. That's a culture.

The issue there was that he honored a priest of God in his own way, in his own culture. That's why we have different types. We have the Wartite, we have all that. So now Pay attention here. It was something done a lot in their environment, even though there were scant literature around the subject of tithing. But it was a practice of the near east, ancient near east, without much writing about it. Now it was equally practiced. Now when you mention that Egypt is part of it's called something close to. It is called the esratu, the Esretu, the ugarids is called the Babylonian 110. Tax is also used by the Mesopotamian tithes, which we'll give reference later. So it was like a tax. It was level levied on the garments by the local ruler, where the garments tied. It was levied also on.