Could you be very hospitable that you love to welcome everybody to your house and then somebody says, and come into your house with a dagger, and I have a dagger, a gun, cyanide. I will love to kill anybody I see there you have others who love peace, who come into the house. Then you bring those who love wars who want to destroy them, and then you bring them in the same household. What you have done is stupid. You have brought people against their will together. And what that implies is you have done more harm than good. So the concept of universal salvation, where those who don't believe in God's saving power will eventually be matched with those who believe in God's saving power, doesn't have sense at all. At least the good one. It overrides the principle of being hospitable.

You can't bring hostile people together and say it's love. People argue against forced marriages. Those who hate themselves don't go to the marriage registry. Why then should those who don't love each other or want each other or want God be made to co dwell with him. People preach against slavery, they preach against all sorts of holding people in captive against their will. Why then should God save you against yours? But they say, well, what if the people are innocent? How innocent could they be? Well, somebody chooses and says he doesn't believe that anything brought this earth together. He doesn't believe that These things are brought by any being. He believes a bank upper somewhere say who needs the match that brought the bank? I don't know. That already shows hostility to deity and divinity.

And therefore to have the person sit in your home is not hospitality, is actually a kidnap. People go to hell because that's what they want. So hell therefore should be a sign of being excluded from God. Pay attention. It's a sign to say I am asserting my control over myself. Hell simply means maybe in today's language, a quarantine from God's presence. That should drive home the point hell will mean I don't want God's presence. 2Nd Thessalonians 1:9 away from the presence of God, A man who is the purported one of the purported writers, C.S. Lewis of universalism. He says this in his closing remarks towards the end of his life. I got one of the things he said. He said, I will pay any price to be able to say truthfully all will be saved.

But my reason resorts or retorts without their will or with it. If I say without their will, I at once perceive a contradiction. How can the supreme voluntary act of self surrender be involuntary? If I say with their will, my reason replies, how if they will not give in? You can't rescue someone against his will. That's not a rescue, that is a kidnap. God wants Jew and Gentile in the same family. We've seen that in the Old Testament. He must find an enemy alike in the same family. Romans 5, 6, 11, Ephesians 3, 14, 17 brings that to bear. Let mention this because it's going to come out in the character theology. This is why we must go back to the submission of the doctrine of Trinity. Without it, a lot of things will be blurred.

Why is there the concept of the Father, then the Son, then the Spirit? That concept can only be seen in the work of redemption, even though it's leading in the Old Testament. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is in Echad 1 God. We therefore must admit that people can twist the scriptures of the Old Testament to satisfy the williams and caprices that's already submitted. The Trinity we have said reveals God. Now I understand the term Trinity can be found in New Testament or Old Testament text. But those who came up with it came up because of how you view God, Father, Son and Spirit. That takes away the concept of viewing God in their world. The family concept of theology explains a whole lot the Old Testament scriptures. Again, Israel was a family. That helps the way you think.

So let's go to other Things you will be accused of. I don't know whether you knew about this. I remember earlier on when I was having conversations with Muslims, I was in secondary school and we had the cause to argue. I had this book were using back then to preach against mostly who is this? Allah, I think was written by a guy like that. Then there was another book by Ahmed did that. It was quite a war. Then the guy brought one magazine, don't know what, you've seen it before about the Crusaders and how as a particular point in history, Christians were fighting precisely Muslims and some of them not Muslims, and killing them to claim lands. Now, back then, for us it was exciting. Many who don't know what crusade means today. I'll tell you in a moment.

And that concept of a crusade has become a blight in the history of Christianity. But that's how Europe was conquered and many other places. This is the reason why there was a repulsion after a while when civilization came one day we'll look at that. That same concept was brought to Nigeria. And if you have read Things Fall Apart before, you probably see what I'm saying. Can we ever justify those wars? No, they will always remain a misrepresentation Christianity because people actually, in the name of God, took on weapons and killed people. And sometimes when you look at those wars and you read about them, they never even followed the pattern of the Near Eastern traditions. Oh, sorry. The Jews. Wars which departed from the Near Eastern traditions. Not a good history. You can check it up for yourself. It's not so nice.

It was all done in the name of the Lord. Just like World War II came because of theology. It was to be a revenge from a Roman Catholic point of view. All right, we had Mussolini and then, who was interestingly, a tyrant. Then you had Stalin was Russian, not Christian. Then you had Hitler, who was a Roman Catholic. And then he sought to exterminate the Jews because listen to this. They killed Jesus. That's a theology. Apartheid is theological. Then you wonder, how did that happen again? Isolated text of the Old Testament and that on its own tells us, be careful with the Bible. So now this will be your challenge because you are going to face Bible critics and religious critics and sometimes those who criticize the Bible, criticize religion generally.

And then they say there's no difference between the jihad of the Muslims and the crusade of the Christians. Is this so? Now listen carefully. Trust me, we still use the word crusade without even knowing what the meaning is. Crusade is actually wars that killed men. Can we classify those wars as Christian? Crusades? No, because history doesn't justify it. Don't forget what I'm talking about. I'm talking about three things now. The wars of the Old Testament. We've left that for now. The Crusades, that happened between 1095 A.D. 1095 and 1291. What kind of things happen? People in the name of Christianity fought wars, killed people, took lands that they claimed was theirs but taken over by Muslims. Let's look at the differences. The Crusades lasted for about 200 years. Jihad is still ongoing about 1300 years. The Crusades have been criticized already.

And the Christian church. Precisely. Let mention the Catholic Church has already apologized. Jihad is still ongoing. And in fact the Jihad has so much imperialism. Okay. And it began 500 years before the Crusades. That is, it brought about the Crusade. Crusades. Thirdly, the Crusades is just about recapturing lands that the Muslims took from Christians. That's historical. Jihad is not about land. Jihad wants to establish Islam all over the world. Somewhere along the line. Are you thinking what I'm thinking? That it is not unlikely that Muhammad, the Prophet of Islam, used wrong theology of Old Testament wars to fight the Jihad? History has it that one of his favorite wives was a Jew. I'm not saying this. You know, there's Islam just facing the facts. Then Jesus, in whose name the Crusades were fought, didn't fight one single war. He was totally against violence.

So that means he was misrepresented. Whereas Muhammad fought at least 60 aggressive military campaigns, which means violence against non believers was part and parcel of his own lifestyle. Again, the writers of the New Testament did not advocate for violence. Paul, Peter, James, John, writer of Hebrews and Jude. Whereas the Quran presupposes a militant, aggressive nature. That's why we had wars in Spain, France and Switzerland. Now, a Christian, well, let's say a scholar on Islam, Bernard Lewis, he said this morning, and I'm going to read what he said. The Crusade is the latest development in Christian history and in a sense marks a radical departure from basic Christian values as expressed in the four Gospels. Christianity has been under attack since the seventh century and had lost vast territories to Muslim rule.

The concept of holy war, more commonly a just war, was familiar since the time began antiquity. Yet the long struggle between Islam and Christianity, the Crusade was limited and maybe uncalled for and of relatively brief duration. Jihad is still present today. It began from the very history of Islam in its own scripture, in the life of his prophet, in the action of his companions in his immediate successors. It has continued through history and has its appeal even till this day. The term crusade actually derives his word from the word cross crux. In Latin it means the war of the cross. Jihad means to struggle and bring about Islam in the whole world. So therefore it becomes very unfair to pick that blighted history of Christianity use that term and to say well Christianity also presupposes violence.

There are several other Christian leaders in history who you cannot in any way associate with that. In recent history we had Martin Luther King, we had people like Mother Teresa and all of that. William Wilberforce of the Salvation Army. Yeah. No Will Weber for sorry and a couple of other people that you see. Well no, no. Whereas Islam is oftentimes led by the violent. Even though I must mention that modern day revisionists try to repackage Islam as different but their scriptures teach otherwise. So like I said, arrowing the Old Testament was just like Jihad. That's somewhere you could run to. No, not at all. Whilst we have seen that there is a tolerance of those who don't believe in Yahweh by these wars it was only restricted to a particular time and a particular people. Jihad is meant to be all over the world.

Again the founder engaged in about 60 wars. 60. The Quran already evidences it and upon the death of the Muhammad his followers continued it. Until today we still have such records in Muslim Jihad. So the issue of toleration in Islam is a modern creation. It's not something that actually is true to his own scripture. The scriptures can say love your neighbor as yourself, don't strike back when you're struck. That is not in the Quran. So again let's make that distinction between Old Testament wars and the Jihad. We said earlier the Old Testament was, had a particular geographical area, it was fought. The Jihad is for the whole world. Then again the wars which involved Joshua and some of the judges was within a limited time. But the Jihad has been since the commencement of Islam up till this day.

So when you see Boko Haram and you know, and all of that theologies were taken from Quran but they can have the argument also that they are equally tuition theology. But I don't agree with that. Again the objects of war in the instance of the wars of the Bible of the Old Testament, the particular ones we're talking about were basically moral issues, worship issues. And don't forget we said it was after 430 years that the Canaanites were eventually judged of their wickedness. But the Islamic Jihad is directed at non Muslims but Christians and Jews Everybody again God says to love everybody. The whole nation should be blessed. Genesis 12 and 3. Of course we read about Jonah, we talked about Babylon, Egypt, Assyria. But in Islam it's only those who obey him.

And do not forget again that there was graciousness in the wars and there was completeness in the wars of jihad. You clear everybody, no one must be left. Like we have said, the ultimate God goal comes in Jesus Christ. Isaiah 9:6, Isaiah 11:1 to 10. And of course the Epistles show us how to handle our true enemy. The weapons of our warfare are not canals here. Corinthians 10:3, 4, John 14:30, the prince of this world. Ephesians 6:10 to 18, Colossians 2:15. So eventually the wars of Christianity are not politically that they military, they are via preaching in non violent mode. Whereas the Quran and Islamic Jihad is for ultimately political purposes to rule nations literally. This is the thing we have to be careful about. Those who preach kingdom takeover, they really don't understand what they are driving at.