So that's why the letters to the church's heart, you hold fast, endure. The context is trial. So if I miss their world, I've missed mine. So therefore the Bible is a book of persuasion, either to persuade or to strengthen your persuasion or to keep you in your persuasion. And I'm going to show you why. Many atheists were dishonest. And I've had a cause to talk to atheists or pretending atheists. And I said to them, you never read your own books this way. That's it. So let's get back to the core things we're saying. Who determines the meaning of the text? The author, primarily. Right. But he will have limitations of the world that he's in and the world after him.

And because the Scriptures were written, you know, you can call the entire Old Testament a book of prophecy that shows you it's predictive in nature. So in my study now, this is it. Let's just put it together. The Bible is theology. Say that many times that theology is a Christology. Those two are the. You know, when you have the life wire, if you miss those two areas, it becomes irrelevant because it's a book that explains itself. It's a theology that is a Christology, a study of God in Christ or as Christ. So from there, what is happening? Salvation. So it therefore becomes a book of persuasion to save soteriology the Christ is coming to save. So if I have all that, then it becomes, how does he do it? The book of the Spiritual realities, new mythology. What is the intention of God?

From Genesis 1 through to the very end. Revelation is a new Jerusalem, new heavens and new earth. That is a people ex ecclesiology. But you know what? The Old Testament, the New Testament letters must also be studied in its eschatological ways where it predicts the future. And eschatology is majorly a thrust of the Old Testament books, where you look at the predictive tense, where things are said, where things that were said were predictive in nature. So which means because of that, the text doesn't carry all of the authority. Yes, the writer has wielded his authority to the text, but it will yet need, we said, a systematic study. Now, what is the role of the reader? I'm going to show you something that someone did recently. It was very. An interesting conversation trying to look at the role in a translation.

How much of the reader do you think. Think about? And this is your, this is where you and I will come to relevance. If you're a teacher of Scriptures, you cannot disconnect from your listeners. So the fellow simply did this. He said, let me show you something. Everybody went quiet in the room was a chat room. So he said, put off your microphones. We want to hear God's word. Everybody put off their microphones. And he simply put his Bible on the microphone. Everybody went quiet. What was he trying to do? He said, can you hear anything? You said, no. He said, because the Bible cannot talk. He said, people have to teach the Bible and therefore this is critical. You cannot take the individual out from what he's saying.

So to disconnect your reader from what you are saying is to have a no communication of language tautology or, sorry, contract contradictory. That means the meaning of a Text must carry the reader along. What are we saying? The author, the text and the reader must interact. The world awaits many interpretations of the same interpretation. What do I mean? I'm saying where the reader is in mind. I need you to go and read or study again our study in the book of Romans where I let you see that Paul's phrases were not innovative. It was only unifying the Jew and the Gentile in his use of words, using Jewish phrases to explain spiritual realities in Greek terms, that is taking your. Carrying your audience along. Now there's a danger there.

The danger of what I just said now is when you are losing it and you think what we're saying is a multiple reader meaning. No, no, you cannot have a multiple reader meaning. Rather you will have the implication and the application of the grammar of the reader being brought into relevance the grammar of the reader. For example, if I say, give the brethren and holy kiss, literally, it means to kiss. In fact, I used to think that they didn't used to have mouth to mouth keys to the Jewish culture. I was, well, well, whatever. But you know, in your world, that is not a friendly greeting. In our world today, that can be affectionate. No, that can be intimate or even sexual. So that means that the reader must give meaning. Are you following what I'm saying? The reader must give meaning.

Just like the supper, eat at the same table. Many don't get it. The reader must give the meaning. Now, the meaning is not to take it away from the meaning. It is only to explain it in your own grammar. Let me show you by following what I'm saying here. Are you following this? Now let's look at a typical example. When he came to Jesus and said, should we pay taxes to Caesar or not? Let me tell you what we thought they were saying. We thought they were referring to paying taxes today. No. Did you notice that where Paul. The only place Paul wrote about taxes was in Rome because Rome was not Israel was Rome. Peter also talked about authority rising in Rome, writing to the Gentile nation. Listen carefully now. Israel had. This is the importance of context.

Israel, you know, people say, go and pay your tax. You say, what? Give us Caesar. Do you know what you're talking about? Israel were being occupied by a foreign army or foreign nation, the Roman Empire. So they were giving them instructions. So the first thing is illegal occupation. That's the first thing. Those who were not citizens were in their nation. Then by saying, should we pay taxes to Caesar, what they were trying to say is, are you now accepting illegal dominance? If he has said yes. Then he can't be the Christ. Because the Christ cannot accept that the king over Israel will be Caesar. Do you follow what I'm saying here? If he had said no, then he will have also brought broken the law. And if he has broken the law, look up, guys.

You can't say he who knew no sin, you can't say he was faultless. So you have to understand that scenario. So Jesus says, bring the coin. Everything has a meaning. Whose acorn is on it? They said, Caesar. The background is that Caesar's name is son of God, king of kings. So Jesus was addressing idolatry, a wider implication. Son of God, king of kings. So when Peter said, you are the Christ, the son of the living God, he said it exactly where Caesar was worshiped. He's saying, you are not the son of God. I am. You are not the Christ, I am. You are not the king. I am. That's what he's saying. But no one can hold you to that. He has no. So when he face Pilate, he says, if my kingdom was of this world, then my soldiers.

And Pilate knew he had no soldiers. How has he become a threat? He knew that. He said, I'm not referring to this world. So Pilate said, this guy has done nothing. Now take that back to the scenario of paying tax. Are you following what I'm saying? So when he says, whose image is there? The moment you hear image, your mind goes to Genesis 1:26, July the Caesar. So he says, return to Caesar that which belongs to Caesar and to God that which belongs to God. Jesus was not talking about paying taxes, was talking about the worship of God. Are you trying to follow me? What I'm saying here, is that clear to you? So now look at the way we came to the meaning. Now if we come today, we will not be talking about paying taxes. You know why?

Because we are not in an illegally dominant environment. Neither do we have any ruler in Nigeria that wants you to worship him as a son of God and the king of kings. So it has nothing to do with paying taxes. Even though that was illustration used. So people think Paul and Jesus contradicted each other? No, they did not. You need to study the text intermediate context. So therefore the reader. Does the reader have a right of meaning? Huh? Come on, guys. Does he have right of meaning? Can you do it alone? No. He has to carry along the author and the text the same way that the author. We must match the author and the reader of the text.

Now when Paul says as often as you drink this bread, or drink this cup and take this bread, look at the use of imageries as he has done it. Which bread? Which cup? Are you telling me that taking bread and wine is the everyday meal? Of course not. He was talking about people being hungry. These are bread and wine. That's a feast. That's symbolic. He's saying to them, using an imagery of an event of Exodus, where you must eat at the table as a family. Eating at the table means that we are one and the same. He said, if you are. If you ought to sit at the same table and have fellowship and somebody's hungry, you are eating damnation to yourself. Today we don't eat together, except you have a birthday party. So. But you know what? We can ride cars together.

We can have to visit each other. He says, you must show the Lord's death. The Lord's death is a unifier till he comes. And so that's. That's critical. It's critical to know that the reader has a role. So therefore, I must look at the world of the writer, the world that the text also subsumes in it, and the world of the reader. Now, today we have a more tedious task. We have to go to many worlds. We look at the world of the Old Testament, and in time, we break it into many parts. The Genesis law world, the Exodus world, the prophets world, the world of the kings and rulers, the world of the exile, the world of the four Gospels, the world of the epistles in their different worlds, and then today's world.

So you think, you see, that we ought to be more tedious in our study than the teachers of the law. We have more. So what issues do I resolve between the author, the text and the reader? Number one, theology, the knowledge of God. Number two, the common language. Number three, the unity of social interaction, theology. Faith in God, faith in Christ, fidelity of God towards His promise. Common language Greek. Are we both Greeks? No. You are Hebrew, I'm Greek. So what's the common unifier in our language? You are English, I'm Greek, Paul is speaking English. I must resolve that the unity of social interactions. Marriages are conducted differently even today. Even today we have different laws, different countries, people. There are some places they say. They say, well, this is the law for marriage. This is done.

Some is traditional, some is, you know, all sort of things. So what's the unifier? And we make a mistake sometimes to think that the weddings conducted by the English monarchs is a Bible marriage. What nonsense. Bible marriages were even conducted mostly in the Evenings, sometimes an all night affair. Let me add this. Oftentimes most cultures didn't even involve the parents. So we have different scenarios in your world, in my world. So we find what is the common social interaction. I must look at all that. So therefore, whatever meaning I must give to a text must never depart from the author, whether consciously or unconsciously. Now let me throw another question. Can a text have surplus meaning? I'm going to answer this question carefully and I hope that you will also answer it carefully. Yes and no.

There was someone like that in ui, in vcf. Then any question you're asking is yes or no. Why is it yes and no? Yes, in the sense that we must determine the limitation of the text and the author when he wrote. That's 1 and 2. There are times that a text relates with two connecting scenarios. What do I mean? Look at Mark 11. Mark 11 started with Jesus. And I'm grateful to God for the faith message of Mark 11, 23, 24. But we have a duty to work harder. To work harder. Before the Mark 11, Jesus entered into a temple. Before Mark 11, 12, there was something about Israel. Then the fig tree not having a fruit was both a miracle and a judgment. And so when it's a fig tree and fruitless, that is an Old Testament reference. I've come to a nation.

They are not bearing fruits. No man eat of you again forever. That's judgment. That's not healing the sick. That's not taking out cancer from someone's body. Are you following what I'm saying here? Not four. Then they go into the temple. Systematically done. Then he says, go to John's example. You have turned this temple into a den of thieves. Then he drove them out and thought it should be a house of prayer. Judgment. Then John 2 says, Destroy this temple. After three days, I'll raise it. Two things happened. Jesus raised from the dead in his resurrection. And the temple by AD 70 was destroyed as a signification of what had happened almost 40 years before. Same text. Then when they came back, as they were coming back, Peter comes with his Lord. Listen now he says, the tree you cross as withered away.