What is the glory of God? Man in the image and likeness of God. Genesis 1:26 28. To replenish the earth, subdue it and overwhelm it. So sin is to be seen. The second sin is S E E N O in or around the image of God. Where a man does not bear the image of God, he is a sinner. Where a man does not act the image of God, he has sinned. So it's about that image of God. Or Genesis 1, 2, the Spirit of God. Genesis 2, 16, 17, the Word of God. So the writer of Genesis, Moses debunks the natural transfer of sin by showing us Cain and Abel. They didn't do the same things. They didn't mean the same thing.

If natural procreation is what makes people a sinner or makes people sinners, then Cain and Abel should follow the same pattern. But Abel is righteous, Cain is wicked. Or Ishmael and Isaac, Jacob and Esau, Joseph and his brothers. And when you drive home the point, in the midst of Israel, those who obey and those who disobey, That's the flesh and the Spirit. Genesis 6 and 3 and all that. So that should be a narrative that should be clear to you. So the concept of being born a sinner is not a Genesis concept? No, it's not even a concept of the law. We said many times a twisted narrative in Isaiah 50. Sorry, Psalm 51. Let me throw this at you. So we say that the law. Okay, look at Romans 5. 5. Hope maketh not ashamed.

Hope is an expectation for the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost given to us. Now, on the face of that looks like the love nature. But the context of it is Romans 5:1. Therefore, being justified by faith, which is the big word there, faith to believe in God's faithfulness, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Then Romans 5:2, Before we landed to Romans 5:2, Paul had In Romans 3, verse 30, it is one God that shall justify that. That phrase one God is the Deuteronomy 6:3 and 4. Here, Israel, the Lord your God is one God. So he has established that.

And the next event, you will love the Lord your God with all your heart and mind, which is what you call the faith of God, or faith in God to love God with your heart and mind. So in Romans 5:2, when it says, whom we have access by faith unto this grace wherein we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God, and not also. So we grow in tribulations also knowing that tribulation works. Patience, patience. Experience hope. Hope makes not ashamed, because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost given to us. For while were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodliness. So the love of God there is just like Romans 8:28 to them who love God.

And Paul uses that old Hebrew language, love the Lord your God with all your heart and mind simply means believing. So the love of God is shared abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost. In other words, it is sealed and signed by the Holy Ghost, the love we have for God, faith in God, which also of course, leads to us walking in love and all of that. So it's together. It says, he shared abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost, which is given unto us. So therefore we are faced with the task to properly read Genesis. I've jumped something. So therefore, if man has fallen short of the glory of God, the sacrifice will come from God to sort out what is missing. So the sacrifice of Christ will be what is missing. What Christ will do is what is missing.

So in that sacrifice, he supplies the medication and it shows the example. Because if it's the image of God, if man is to act in the image of God will be to man the solution and also the example. I want us to see how John uses the word sin. First, John 2. Today we're just tidying up so that we won't have all these issues by the time we look at the other part of this first John 2. We know him if we keep his command. Of course the translators have a reason why they have it in plural. His Commandment. And verse 4 I know him and keeps not his commandment. He is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Look at five. Whosoever keeps his word in him. Verily is the love of God perfected, whereby we know we are in him.

Now the love of God here is not loving people. It is describing the faith of God. He Pay attention. He that saith he abides in him ought himself also to walk even as he walked. I write no new command to you, but that old command which is from the beginning Old command which is the word which you have from the beginning. Now look at verse 8. Which thing is true in him and in you? Because the darkness is past. The true light now shineth. He that seed is in the light and hates his brother is in darkness even until now. So he now brings the faith to the faithfulness of the conduct. And you see that permits the entire Epistle in 1 John 3. Four. Whosoever commits sin transgresses also the law. For sin is the transgression of the law.

That is the law of faith. We know that he was manifested to take away our sins, and in him is no sin. Whosoever abides in him sins not. Whosoever sins has not seen him, neither has he known him. He says, little children, let no man deceive you. He that does righteousness is righteous even as he is righteous. He that commits sin is of the devil, for the devil sins from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the work of the devil. Sins from beginning there shows that something was missing. Okay, then he says, whoever is born of God does not commit sin, for the seed remains in him, and he cannot sin because he is born of God. For in this the children of God are manifest, the children of the devil.

Whosoever does not rise in the Son of God, neither he that loves not his brother. This is the man. We heard from the beginning that we should love one another. So he gives you all that. Now look at chapter three again, verse 20. If our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart and knows all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence towards God, so that we ask receive of him, because we keep his commandments and do those things that are present in his sight. This is his commandment. Look at 23. So if you don't get it. 23. You'll have missed what he's saying. That we should believe on the name of His Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another as he gave us commandments. He that keeps his commandments dwells in him and he in him.

However, we know that he abides in us by His Spirit, which He has given us. Notice that the next thing he talks about in chapter four is faith in God. We are of God. Those who are of the flesh speak of the flesh, believe that Jesus is the Son of God. The love of God was towards us. 1 John 4:9. God loves us. And so that how we love, because he first loved, that is, he considered us okay, and he gave His Son. And so in that same rite, we believe the name of the Son and we also walk in love. So he paints the Genesis 3 and 4 narrative, faith in God, which is what was missing in Genesis 3, and then love towards others missing in Genesis 4.

So it says transgress against the law is referring to the law of faith and not the law of sin and death. So if what sought sin is the love of God or is not a waving a way of written documents? No, it is to put the image of God into a man, to give a man the Spirit of God. Because the image of God that we have, the Selim and the Demoth, is the Spirit of God. Genesis 1:2. So the Spirit of God in man is the image of God, and walking in the Spirit is to walk in the image of God. So at the very root of Genesis 3 is idolatry. That is why the apostles will call flesh the world. Flesh is not the physical body. Paul simply used flesh as a constituent. Why do they now use flesh?

Because it's what you can see, what you can feel, impulses from the world. But we are not of this world, all of that. So Genesis stands in a very crucial place in theology that there is no concept that can be taught without the Genesis truth. To teach sin without the image of God is to use everyday life as a perfect sense in teaching about, you know, God's righteousness. So righteousness will be to put it back there, to set it right there according to plan. So it's not just. It will have a bigger picture. We'll explore that as we've said. So beginning at Moses is not a mere mention. Is a study culture, a study pattern. So whether it's the concept of sin or blessing, you must go to Genesis. Sin, blessing, etc. Etc. Will require that you go Genesis.

Now go back to Luke 24 I said we should. So in Genesis 3, the lamentation was from God. In Genesis 4, the lamentation was from God. In Genesis 6, the lamentation was from God. So from the foundation of the world, God, who is the Creator, has suffered from his own creature. Luke 24. O fool, slow of heart. To believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things? So he taught the sufferings of Christ from the Old Testament books. Which means, pay attention that in the Old Testament it is God who suffered. Hatred, bitterness, disobedience. God suffered. And why does he suffer? He suffered because of his love, nature, his unstoppable commitment to man. Therefore lies the importance of a good understanding of the Old Testament. We must understand it.

We must place premium on the understanding of the Old Testament text. In Romans 15, Verse one, I want you to observe how Paul. Of course, the best is to read Romans 13, the Love Law, verse 10. Love walks no you to his neighbor. Lovespring of the law put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 13:14. Then he mentions, those who are weak, receive them. And all of that. Look at Romans 15:16, continuation of that discussion. We then, that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves. Let every one of us please the neighbor for his good to edification. For even Christ pleased not himself. But as it is written, the reproaches of them that reproach thee fell on me. That's Psalm 69. Let's go there. And verse nine. For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.

Where you have passion, jealousy, love. And the reproaches of them that reproach thee are falling upon me that reproached you. Then he says, I wept, chastened my soul with fasting, and also my reproach. So the reproaches of them that reproach you are falling on me. And Paul now says in verse 4, Romans 15, Whatsoever things were written aforetime, were written for our doctrine learning, that we, through the patience and comfort of Scriptures, might have hope they happened for our learning. So it means that the Old Testament text is meant for doctrine. Like I said, we're not bringing contradictions. The truth is, every teacher knows to take steps in teaching. So the Old Testament is a promise. True, it's to know what God has promised the four Gospels. And then we say to believe. And then the epistles is where you grow.

But then the epistles are sermon notes of the Old Testament. They are the sermon notes of the Old Testament. I saw a Man say that since Paul didn't know you were going to read it, that the epistles are not for you. They just show you a pattern of your own epistles. That God is waiting for all believers to write their epistles. Look, all these people that are preaching and the fellow was just trying to. Actually, I think he was coming after some of us, maybe myself, all this Paul, Paul. And the guy said, Paul said, what was the big deal about Paul? He said, Paul is just one of the many apostles. Then he went into that Jesus taught from the. Jesus did not teach from Ephesians. He taught from the Old Testament. You know, he was arguing very well.