And it's in the Old Testament. Have you considered my servant Job? Oh, there's none is perfect. And he says, well, does God fear Job for nothing? He says, has thou not made an edge about him and about his house, about all he had on every side? Has thou blessed the work of his hands, the substance? So look at exactly what the writer is saying. This is what you have done. Who's following what I'm saying here? So this is what you have done. But put forth thy hand now and touch all he had, and it will cost you to your face. Now look at that statement. The touch all he has cannot be God. He said, take your hand. How can he take his hand and still be touching him? That is, if anything happens. God's hand was not present.

Then the Lord said to Satan, behold, all he has is thy power only upon himself. You not put your hands. And then he went for a present. So that is all he has in your hands. Now we know that this is, like I said, an epilogue, a prologue, where you now have Job consistently in fear, expecting the punishment, expecting the disaster. Then you find natural disasters happened, his businesses had problems and all of that. Then look at what he says in 21. The Lord are taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. The Lord gave and taken away. I did not sin nor charge God foolishly. Now look at chapter two. Watch something. Again to and fro, verse 3. As thou concern my servant Job, there is none like him in the earth. Same statement. And still held fast his integrity.

Although you have moved me against him to destroy him without a curse. Now that is abrasion. You have moved me against him. That is what has he said. Here you have made me by moving Job to fear, by moving Job against me. See what had happened? So God is not saying you inspired me. You toasted me to fight him. No, in other words, Job stared up things. Sorry, Satan against Job. So in the near eastern days, the idiom of permission is used there again. So where we see the armies come against Israel, fight and defeat them. It's the same thing. You have moved. You'll find out that what happens oftentimes is that the armies or the enemies of Israel will move them to do something they should not do. Disobedience always happens before disaster strikes. Always.

The pattern of Genesis chapter three is all through the Scriptures, Second Chronicles, chapter six. We're going to read it with Jeremiah 25, Verse 16 and 17. But they mocked the messengers of God, and despised his words and misused his prophets until the wrath of the Lord rose against the people because there was no remedy. We didn't read 17 the other time. Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, who slew their young men with the sword in the house, in the sanctuary, and had no companion upon young men, or maiden, or old man, or him that stooped for aid. He gave them all into his hands. And the vessels of the house of God, great and small, treasure of the house of God and treasure, all were brought to Babylon. Now where did it come from? Do you know what it is?

This is very similar to Sodom and Gomorrah. So in Jeremiah 25, Verse 9, the same thing was said. This same story. Genuine. 25. Sorry. Verse 9. Behold, I will send and take on farms of the north, said the Lord, and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant. And they will bring them against this land, against thereof, and against all these nations round about. And what I destroy them and make them an at and an easing and perpetual dissolution. Look at verse 11. And this old land shall be desolation and an astonishment. And this nation shall serve the king of Babylon. Seventy years shall come to pass, when seventy years were accomplished, that I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation share the love for their iniquity. And the land of the Chaldeans I will make it perpetual desolation.

So eventually even that same land. Look at verse 13. I bring upon the land all my words which I have pronounced against it, even though it's written in the book which Jeremiah prophesied against all the nations. So this is something that happened by the Chaldeans. The Chaldeans committed wickedness. And he said, the wickedness too will be punished. So. In the sense of Job too, we see this same use of language where permission or permissive verbs are used in their causative. The Chaldeans will come against Israel destroy, and the same Chaldeans will be destroyed. So when he said, I will give you to the hands of the chaldeans, in Jeremiah 22:25, you can note that 32, 4 and 24 and 25 Jeremiah 22:25, Jeremiah 32, verse 4, verse 24, verse 25 Jeremiah 32, verse 28, verse 43, Jeremiah 38, 18.

It simply means I can't protect you. Again, the concept of natural desires. Before we get to that, look at second Samuel. No, first Samuel. First Samuel 18. Okay, first Samuel 19. Now he says here that verse nine, the evil spirit from the Lord was upon Saul as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand. And David played with his hand. So he says, the evil spirit. I think I want to read chapter 16, verse 4. So 14. And the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. Look at that. The spirit of the Lord departed. An evil spirit. So when it says from the presence of the Lord, it simply means that because God wasn't there. Another issue is the word Lord there. The word Elohim used also for idols and evil spirit.

So you can see that If I read 1st Samuel 19 and I don't read 1 Samuel 16, 14, I won't understand the use of words. Numbers 11, natural disasters, the fire of the Lord burnt amongst them. We'll look at that phrase, fire of the Lord in more detail. I want to rush it. The fire of the Lord, fire from heaven. You know all those phrases. So were demons present in the Old Testament? Yes. Were there evil spirits? We just saw one. Bringing a supernatural. A supernatural utterance. So evil spirits cause supernatural things. Sickness and disease. Exodus 15:26. Which I brought upon the Egyptians. No. Which I did not prevent from happening to the Egyptians. For I am the Lord that heeded thee.

So when I read brought, upon, for example, or put in 2nd Chronicles 36, 17, Exodus 15:26, it simply implies which I allowed. It's not causation. It simply means I did not have a protective edge over them. How is that clear? Because I am the Lord that healeth. Let me, let me. Let's explore it a bit. Look at Job 42. That same word brought Exodus 15:26, 2nd Chronicles 35, the one we just read. And look at Job 42, 11. We saw that the other time, then there came unto him all his brethren and all his sisters, and all that they had been of his acquaintance. Of course, you read the book of Job. You already know what happened. You know who did what. Then look at this. And they bemoaned him and comforted him over all the evil that the Lord had brought upon him.

Now you know, if you had read from chapter one, you know this is Ibrahim language. Because you know, it is Satan. Job obviously was wrong when he said the Lord brought it job 2 and 10 and he corrected himself. Why is the writer of Hebrews, the writer of Job saying this? Because the Old Testament had sufficient information whether Genesis or Job to show us that God does not afflict. So it is not a creation of the loving God, is not a creation of the New Testament? No, it's not. The loving God is the God of the Old Testament, the Father of the Old Testament. So nothing suggests that the New Testament tried to paint God in a different light. The difference is here is that the language medium of the New Testament is different from the language medium of the Old Testament.

So let's see it like this. Why the New Testament interprets the Old Testament to mean my world is not because the Old Testament cannot interpret itself. It's because to save me in some instances the journey of learning ibraism and the use of words. I already have the interpretation. But I think we have not been saved so well because still lies with us is not knowing the unifier. How did they do this? Were they trying to do a PR job? No, they were only bringing the language to our world. And so the four Gospels in itself interprets God to us in our world. The four Gospels. So on Tuesday we would look at some critical terms in a lot of texts, a lot of things. So in your submission now let me ask you, this is between us now.

Imagine being invited to preach for one hour in a convention. Can you see what has contributed to this? It's almost like preachers are speakers in an occasion. They don't have that duty because they just get there. And you now have 45 minutes. Because oftentimes you have 45 minutes and they give you theme God give a thing, the awesome God. Why would you not prophesy. Something that Jethro came and said, Moses, you will just die. You want to be doing this alone? Get more people. So they will be teaching all these people. You alone will not do the job. Why do you think Ezra? Why do you think Jesus or Paul? Because they were not being invited. And you see the timer like this 14. They'll be counting it. How would you now you. You don't think you are doing any work vis a vis?

They just came Tunde why they study in school? You tell them, this is what I saw in the school. Say, you know what? The next semester you are going to teach so and so. And then you know that you will have how many user you give me six periods per week. Do you get my point? Are you following what I'm saying? So you will have three months. This is how the Bible was taken. But when you are called, I said, just come and bless us. Do you see why Paul on his way out, he was going, he was saying, guys, I'll see you later. Acts 20 from evening till morning, let's just quickly share. But today we have so much treated the Bible badly that it is not worth our research.

That's why a guy is praying for a word, he picks a statement and then the word no more. So we cannot drop the ball. We can't, because we have to. You can see that if you are a translator, every text must take time. Do you see the counterproductive nature of just quoting? Just quoting. That guy knows the world. He only has memory of scriptures. He could have crammed any other thing like that. So therefore, if we leave this room just knowing one thing, I am sufficient that the teacher is a translator. And if translators take all their time, you ought to do the same. Because you can't gloss over the Scriptures. I know it doesn't stop by just saying, yes, he didn't do it. No, that is not the explanation though. That is just a grammatical understanding.

You will now go to theology of it, which is systematic. Amen. So you see why we like the New Testament. Whereas the New Testament in his own world, where it was written, they were reading the things you are running away from. So we leave it at this today and we'll look at those incriminating texts. My pursuit is to ensure that between now and sometimes end of the month, we have enough material for the now to address these issues one by one. And I really want us to tackle the whole Bible in the next few years so that we can confidently start looking at doing translations. I don't think we can do one. I think we have the right on say Matthew to do like 5, but not lose theological content. Do you understand what I'm saying? The content.

Because if I face somebody here, my communication will defy the information is the same if I face somebody here. And that is the job I must keep doing around the world. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/