I don't know what they now use. I think then you have the option of refine. You discover that these are laws. That's not. People think it's from the Bible. No, they are already. They are historical laws that were done. That's why I said when I studied law we had. They gave us the background of Thomas Hobbs levitan material where you see how laws emerge. They emerge from human beings coming together to have a social contract. Okay, this is how we're going to be regulated. We're going to be doing this for anyone that does that. So Moses now was born after such an era. Then he says look guys, rather than do this, let's step it down a bit. That is what you now in the scriptures. But the laws of Moses were not the only laws existing in the world.

That was just for Israel and Israel's own was even to make them unique among all the nations. And so they had things that are similar. Of course Moses must have picked this up from a typical justice system by mouth or two or three witnesses. You know, those basic things are still applicable today in many justice systems. Times, you know, you don't just say I think he did it, that nobody's gonna. It has to be a viable, verifiable evidence and so on and so forth. So therefore a few things, you see, I've mentioned U. S. Electric chair. I've mentioned, you know, other ones. I think it's the UK that they took it out totally that you can kill somebody, just put you in jail for five years. They say you are well behaved, come out, you know, and all of that.

But before then they had, you know, much more stricter laws. A few things I want us to observe from here is that you are supposed to prove it and then you don't take the offender yourself. It has to be by the judge. Then it says you have to treat the person like a brother. That's also critical here. The person has to be like a brother. He's your brother. And I think we can see Paul, 1st Corinthians 5, right? 2Nd Corinthians 1, treat the person like a brother. 2Nd Thessalonians 3 is still a brother, not like an enemy, even though he has done wrong. So all that has shades of this in the teaching. Are you following this? And don't forget that correction and rebuke and to excommunicate are still applicable New Testament truths.

So I mean, when you have things like to cane and to use a rod on people, you discovered that as time went on, it was as it were reduced into Instructions words. Psalm 23:4. The rod and your staff, they comfort me. For example, Proverbs 13:24, He that spares his rod ate his son. Your mother has never read this text to you before? Then she wasn't a Christian. He that loves him chastens him. Many times you know my mother. I knew this verse before anything. Then you have Proverbs 22:15. So was now used metaphorically. Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child. You should know these verses. The rod of correction shall drive it far from him. How many of you still believe it? You don't. You should know Proverbs 29:15. The Lord and reproof give wisdom.

But a child left to himself brings his mother to shame. That's a fact. Even till today. You may not exactly use the Fivefold Ministry, but there are other applicable. I don't apply it. I've applied it just once before in the glory of God. But I mean, I think I may be grateful that it was done at some point in my life because you put some sensibility into your head and you behaved yourself. Secondary school. My dad will come and he, apart from school assignments, he'll give myself and my cousin his own personal assignment. We thought it was a joke till the day came and we said. And we did some. We said okay. He went to the house, master's house, got Iman's pancreas. You know what pankare is the Greek word for okay.

And in front of the school he gave both of us 1212 statutory. He moves to 1824. And so we began to observe our prep class extra. No more prep classes. You have to do more work in that regard. So, you know, you cannot train up a child without correction, without discipline, without some level of sternness left to yourself. You know what you'll have been many of you know, I will go to school. I wanna be a millionaire. That's why you're gonna be seeking all over the place. I mean, I know everybody here. I trust you. There's nobody here that is doing yahoo. Because you're well brought up. You have correction around you. Anyhow, Anyhow, brother, anyhow. Anyhow. You know, you don't have that because obviously you are well brought up. So that was the criminal justice of that time, the way they were called.

But let's look at the other laws of their day, the Umurabi code. In the Umurabi code, that is the one I read earlier for such things, they used to remove the tongue, the breast, the hand and the ear off. So it was said that you could have a city of A third of them who have no ears in Egyptian laws was well mouthed. They used the nose and the ear. They just cut part of the nose and then the air. One thing about it is that they didn't have compensations. Now, the Umurabi code was, will have is death for any kind of stealing. Any kind. During airtime. Any kind of stealing was death. Any kind. I mean, any kind. There's no is. And they had self help. You can decide to do it. So a lot of bestial manners were there.

I said, Paul Moses, therefore, mitigated that, said, no, let's have a judge. Let's have somebody who will look at it. I mean, look at what happened in Solomon's case. Someone just went to take somebody's baby, says, my own. There's no DNA. You can't say, let's test. And it's obviously showed that most of them were. Call them prostitutes. Okay? So they were like, who has a child? And said, let's cut it into two. Yes, you take the upper part, I take the lower part, you know, and that's how people that don't have interest on that out there, they don't care if things spoil. Yeah, but if you do that happened to that church. So I don't care. That's the other woman. I said, no, no, no, let her have it. Solomon said, this is the mother. Do you get it?

So that means they will bring things to. They were still in their own day. You can just take the child who took my child and now then they pulling it. Imagine. I'm not joking. No, that was what was next? So they. They put judges so that they can look at the issues. Whereas in Exodus 22:4, for example, I'll start from verse one. If a man shall steal an ox or a sheep and kill it and sell it, and shall restore five oxen for an ox and four sheep for his sheep. If a thief be found breaking up and be smitten that he dies, there shall no blood be shed for him. If that is, I mean, if in the middle of it he dies, if the sun be risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him, for he shall make full restitution.

If he has nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft. For every theft is certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be ox or ass or sheep, it shall restore double. This is to mitigate what was in existence. That says, just kill the one. We read about strokes of Cain in Egypt, it used to be 200. Moses said 40. Isn't it better? How many of you have heard 40 to 200? I think I would. So you have to look at, you know, the days that they lived and the kind of things that the equal, you know, got into. Let's see, a few things. One other thing that I found out in those laws was that they usually considered your status. You were rich, you could buy your way through and all of that.

But if you look at the laws of Moses, it almost tilted for the poor. In fact, there were higher standards for those who are noble men. If you sow in somebody else's field. The Hittite laws, which was in Turkey of that day, or this today, was death, though they changed it later. Moses says, you just restore. So in other words, it was a stepping down of what was in existence. It wasn't in any way original. So the laws of Moses were not original. That is why they are called the law of sin and death. They were not original. They were like modified legislations of their days. Majorly from the code, the Hittite laws, the Egyptian codes. So just because of his knowledge, just said, you know what I know? This is what you are used to. Let's not do 200, let's do 40.

And if you observe some, we're going to get to that. Usually, usually where there's a case of murder or sorry to kill was because a life had been taken, or idol worship, that's the usual one, like I said, the one about the Sabbath equally has to do with the worship of God and, you know, other things. So it tried to modify it and not glorify things. And all of that. So we continue the next 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/