Can we also call righteousness doing the right thing, or doing it to put it right? Okay, okay, Galatians 2:21 I do not frustrate the grace of God, for if righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. Galatians 3:6 Abraham believed God it was counted to him for righteousness. Galatians 3:21. Is law then against the promise of God forbid. For if there had been a law given, that could have given life, verily, righteousness should have been by the law. So you can see that within this tangent righteousness deals with the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. Galatians 5:5 for we through the Spirit, wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. That's again Christ's resurrection is in view. Ephesians 4:24 Put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. That's the new man from Christ's resurrection.

Ephesians 2:5 6:2 to Ephesians 2:10 that's where the new man came from. Ephesians 2:18 19:20 Ephesians 5:9 the fruit of the Spirit of course, by the time you have read the book before now, that will be the Spirit by which you have access to the Father. Ephesians 2:18 and all of that he says, for the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth. Ephesians 6:14 the breastplate of righteousness. So if you call righteousness the truth, you are right. If you call righteousness the gospel of peace, you are right. If you call it the faith in 16 you are right. If you call it the word of God, you are right. If you call it salvation, you are right in Ephesians 6. In Philippians 1, verse 11 he says, you are filled with the fruits of righteousness.

The fruits of righteousness, you are saved, and then you begin to walk in love. See, that's the fruit of God's righteousness, what God has put right. So Philippians 3:6,9, very critical. Concerning the righteousness which is in the law. Blameless, blameless. And he has told you what it is, circumcision, and talks about the ceremonies. But he says in nine be found in him not having my own doing right, which is of the law, but the doing right, which is through the faith or faithfulness of Christ, the righteousness or the putting right, which is of God by his faithfulness. First Timothy 6, 11. Follow after righteousness. Second Timothy 2:22. Flee youthful lust and follow after righteousness. Look at the two texts. They're talking about the doctrine. The doctrine, the word of truth, the good fight of faith.

So the fulfilled scriptures and the promises of God fulfilled is called his righteousness. To put it right, to do it right. 2Nd Timothy 3:16. All scripture given by inspiration of God profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness, which is instruction in the instructions of spiritual growth in the fulfilled scriptures. Or what God has promised, which is fulfilled through his Son, Jesus Christ, from the foundation of the world. 2Nd Timothy 4:8. The crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge. A text we are going to also examine. The Lord the righteous judge shall give me at the day, and not to be only born to them that love his appearance. To love his appearance there is in verse one, who shall judge the quick and the dead esteems appearance, that is, they esteem God's judgment. Titus 3:5.

Not by the works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost. So now can you separate the concept of righteousness from the Old Testament? Can you? No, you can't. It has to be a fulfillment of the Old Testament. Let's look at the book of Hebrews 1:8, talking about Jesus. The throne of God is forever and ever. The scepter of righteousness is the scepter of the kingdom. The scepter of righteousness. Then verse 9. Thou has loved righteousness. Now the second righteousness there is different, but the first word is the same word. Darko Zuli, Hebrews 5:13. Now I know you know this already, so let's just mention it.

He says, everyone that uses milk is unskillful in the word of righteousness, for he is a babe now he's talking about the interpretation of the Old Testament. He calls it the word of righteousness. And what do you mean again? Hebrews 1:1:3 what God promised that he has through the prophet, that he has fulfilled through his own son, the word or the doctrine of God's righteousness. Hebrews 7:2 Melchizedek, king of righteousness, King of Salem, king of righteousness, king of what is put right. Hebrews 11:7 Noah became heir of the righteousness, which is by faith heir. That means he was given a portion or the portion or a part of the righteousness by faith, putting it right by God's faithfulness. Like I said, the entire Hebrews 11 concept. If you throw in God's faithfulness and men believing in it gives it the full picture. By faith.

Noah By God's faithfulness and heeding to it, Noah built an ark. Hebrews 11:33 they wrought righteousness through faith, subdued kingdoms, obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions. Hebrews 12:11 the peaceable fruit of righteousness fruit of God's righteousness it is unto them which are exercised thereby. James 1:20 the wrath of man walketh not the righteousness of God. James 2:23. Abraham believed God. It was imputed to him for righteousness, and it was called the friend of God imputed on Abraham. James 3:18 the fruit of righteousness, which is what you can call the fruit of the spirit, is sown in peace of them that make peace. First Peter 2:24. Who his own selves bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sin, should live unto God's righteousness, by whose side we are healed.

So he's saying again that what God did to Jesus upon the resurrection is that righteousness we are now alive unto it. 25 That you were as sheep gone astray. He has now returned us to the shepherd and bishop of our souls. That is the righteousness. Second Peter 1:1 Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Savior Jesus Christ. 2Nd Peter 2. 5 Noah a preacher of salvation Correct. Righteousness, correct. God's promise Correct. Bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly. So Christ's work again is in view. 2Nd Peter 2:21 for it has been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness than for them to have known it and turned from the holy commandment delivered unto them.

The holy commandments, which is God's word. 2Nd Peter 3:13. Nevertheless, we, according to his promise, look for the new heavens and the new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness, heaven and earth. First John 2:29. First John 2:29. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone that doeth righteousness is born of him. Oh, I skipped first. I skipped 1 Peter 3:14. If you suffer for righteousness. If you suffer for righteousness. Now let me stop at this point. Is it clearer that to have righteousness as forgiving sinners is a very narrow thinking? Can you see it? Very, very narrow. Righteousness must firstly have to do with God. What he did. If at all relates with us, it will be imitating him.

Because if you look at Second Corinthians 9, 9 and 10, we talk about giving the fruit of righteousness is really the fruit of righteousness, which is God's gift of grace that he abounded unto us. 2 Corinthians 9:8 has become the fruit of his righteousness in us. Is that clear? You know, the thing is this, I must mention this. The reason why a lot of background teaching of righteousness had to do with it was a. There's a mixture somewhere. And I'll tell you where we need to clear that line now so that we don't start getting landmines was because Luther, Martin Luther, the popular Reformed, Reformation activists, the concept was that the Catholic Church, they were into indulgences and ceremonies and all that. He was also a monk. And someday he just stumbled upon Romans 1:17, that the just shall live by faith.

And so he said that means a just man is by believing. And so which is light, you know, but that's not all the light. So a lot of things were built on it. And even the revelation of righteousness that came through over the 19th century, 20th century, was still expanding on that same a car is the seat concept. And it therefore came to us at this point. So a lot of people could not exactly explain why it doesn't have that overwhelming doctrine, except in a few places. In fact, by the time you leave, if you notice, there are probably just two places that you find that doctrine of righteousness very strong. Romans 4 and 5 and where Abraham then you talk about Romans 5, gift of righteousness, 2 Corinthians 5:21.

Anywhere else you just be looking, you'll be looking like Luposy that well, what is really saying here? I begin to. And that's because of Like I mentioned, you know, not taking the wholeness of the body of Scriptures to substantiate anything whatsoever. Now let's go further. 1 John 3:7, Let no man deceive you. He that doeth righteousness is righteous even as he is righteous. And in the background you have Cain and Abel. We'll see all that later. Verse 10. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loves not his brother. So love is called righteousness. To put in the right Now I said Hebrews 1:8 was a very different word. Let's go back there. Hebrews 1:8, The scepter of righteousness is justice. Euthutis e u t H u t s which is from Psalm 45:67.

It's used by kings, the scepter of justice. And you find that word from the word Euthus e u t h u s an adjective in Matthew 33, Mark 13 and Luke 3, 4. And they are just the same thing. Matthew 13, John the. Sorry, Matthew 3:3, that's John the Baptist quoting Isaiah. Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his path straight to make it straight, to make something straight. Then Acts 8:21 where Peter said to that man, simon the sorcerer, your heart is not right. Euthus. Acts 9:11, the street caused straight. Acts 13:10 Elima to Sorcerer, you are perverting the right ways. Notice that in the Matthew 3 account, which is also with Mark 13 and Luke 3:4 and Acts 13, it is said alongside God's righteousness, just like Hebrews 1:8. Then you have second Peter 2:15 in the background.

You have righteousness in second Peter 2:21. So eventually it is said with the concept of God's righteousness. Now, just like we have been doing our studies, what they are reading from is the Old Testament. That's where they are reading from, the Old Testament. So the word that they are translating, diakosude, all right, is translated from an Old Testament word. Sedeka T s e D e q a h sedeka. Sedeka means what is right. It's used for a correction, a rectification. So anytime you see the word righteousness, there must be a contrast that it is putting right or rectifying. It's putting something right. And you see where justification comes for shortly is putting something right. So our first mention here will be Genesis 15:6. Abraham believed in Lord.

Now the grammatical meaning is to set it right or to put it right or to be put in what is right. So it's like to right a wrong. So Genesis 15:6. Abraham believed in the Lord. It was counted to him, don't lose this as putting it rightly or doing the right thing, or putting it in the right. Siddeka has 118 references in Old Testament books. Genesis 30, 33. For so shall my righteousness answer for me in the time to come, so shall my righteousness. What is right, what is correct? Leviticus 19:15. Leviticus 19:15. You shall do no unrighteousness in judgment. Thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty. In righteousness thou shalt judge thy neighbor. So the word Tzedekah is from the word Siddec Tsedq proper, right. Also Genesis 18, verse 25. To do right.

So the New Testament interpretation of Diako Zuni. Sorry, of the word Diako zuni has to be sedeka. So like I said, the narrow prism will be to use Romans 5, 16, 17. The gift of. We have not gone to Romans at all. I really left it out. The gift of righteousness, where you say doron. Now when I say the gift of righteousness is the gift. So I must find out what is that righteousness. If righteousness is that gift, then I'm only describing. Let me just paraphrase that for you. You know, before you get to Romans 5:16, when you say gifts Doron doria that were used by Paul, there you have a Romans 5:5. The love of God is shed above by the Holy Ghost given to us. Romans 5:8. For God commended his love towards us. While we're yet sinners, Christ died for us.