So go listen to, I think spirit, body of Christ I mentioned. I I explained that cooperation between all the forces of evil in one place, unlike the time of Paul, that he was eventually released and then maybe brought back to face Nero, Jesus was never. He was killed. So in Genesis 2:16 and 17, where you have death and sin, and Genesis 3:15, the seed of the serpent, you have found a confederacy of evil. The princes of this world, John 12:31, the judgment of the prince of this world. So Israel has one imposter, Herod. Two, an alien nation, Rome ruling them. Three, a religious institution, Pharisees and Sadducees who have come up and formed a sect interpreting scriptures, the scribes. So the stage therefore was set. God's word was twisted, God's government was twisted. The temple had been invaded, bastardized. So evil was set.

And this was the time. So at the very height of it came redemption. The same way that there was no exodus till another king, Exodus 1:8 arose that did not know Israel and then know Joseph and began to persecute them. So it is obvious that the Exodus happens at the high height, you know, the very height of evil and wickedness. So vis a vis what happened in the four gospels, evil had come together for this to happen and you find a king who was so heartless. Never happened in Israel before. Ask people to kill children from two years down. That's never happened in Israel before. And this wicked person, the only person that did something like that was Herod. So they are not in any land, they are in their own land and there's a Herod there. So it was a Pharaoh.

So we have found a Pharaoh in an Herod who was an Edomite and not a child of David, not even of Jacob. So again, these are the events around it. And you know, we can look at it. It's therefore believed. Sorry. We can therefore allude to the fact that Simeon and Anna were sensing that just like Israel, at every time that there's an exile, they've disobeyed God as an exile, they are under domination. They always waited for that Messiah. So it is therefore not far fetched that Simeon was waiting, just like all the old professors were waiting for a Messiah and Anna. So the stage was set. It has been getting set, you know, from time immemorial, where Eve had Cain and Abel, felt it was Cain, then it now became Cain, killed Abel, they had another child and said, this must be.

And then after a while she just gave up. That Is this can't be it. So the stage therefore was set. Evil was fully formed. And so like Genesis 22:12, where God commended Abraham and said, you did not hold back your son. Which is what Paul wrote as Romans 8:32, he that spared not his own son, and all of that. So in Isaiah 53 we see from rejection through to wickedness lies transgression. 12 We find a culmination of evil. The flip side of it is that Israel was waiting for a messiah, a deliverer. But in their own belief, their deliverer was to be economic, social and political. Jesus comes with no soldiers. Therefore, in Matthew 12, if Genesis 3:15 will have to happen, then Matthew 12 presents for us the proper grammar or the proper vocabulary for it. Matthew 12, verse 9.

Of course, verse 29 talks about casting out of demons. Mustn't be lost on you when you hear cast out of demons bezel book devils, I.e. Exodus, the plagues, you know, and all of that. To cast out demons, to dispel their powers. And that's exactly what happened in that means to remove the hold and the torture on others. So if you look at the plagues from without the Passover, you miss it out. The children of Israel were exempted from what the gods in the lands of Egypt did. So basically what happened was simple. They couldn't. They couldn't affect Israel, but they affected Egypt. And that is like a forerunner of casting out of demons. And so here Jesus mentioned casting out of demons, but he didn't stop there. How else can one enter into a strong man's house and spoil his goods?

Except he force blood binds the O in the Greek, the strong man, and then he will spoil his house. What to spoil is. Now look at the word Esar. To enter, then to bind. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things in the entire glory? So you have. The sufferings of Christ are in view here. Then to spoil diaphazo D I a r P a Z o from the word dia apazo between dia h a p h a Z O. So to enter into the stronghold, what will be the stronghold of the devil, Unbelief, disobedience, hatred, malice, human government in wickedness, twisting of scriptures lies, defamation, and then the results into death. He will enter into it to spoil it. So this is the reason for the resurrection. He has to enter in.

We can't have a Messiah who cannot enter in to spoil it. He has to enter in to spoil it, to spoil his house. And so the way he will enter, he has to die, he has to betrayed, he has to be killed, he has to go to the Hades, where you have the place of the dead. The Old Testament show, then the New Testament ads, where you have all sorts of interpretations today, Once again, don't forget that the death of Jesus is a Passover. It is therefore the Passover is celebrated as the background event of the reason for the unleavened bread, the feast of Tabernacles, the Pentecost and all of that. The Passover is the feast in the background. In Exodus 12 and 13, he will bear it.

And when he bears it, the nation of Israel, which is the church today, in that sense, will eat of it. And in eating it, a lot of other feasts come after you are washed. The tabernacle, you are washed where there's washings going on. Jesus is saying, no, it is not to wash, it is to drink. Come and drink. I thought it's to wash, to drink. It's when you drink it that it washes. And then he says, the water is a spirit in his resurrection. Again, notice that the Spirit oftentimes in the four Gospels refers to the resurrection of Jesus. So in John 7, When he says, for the Holy Ghost was not yet, because the Holy Ghost was not yet, because it was not glorified. You have the Greeks, the King James says, was not yet given. There's no giving in the original.

It simply is the word. The Holy Ghost was not yet or was not yet spirit. So when we hear Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, expand that to mean he died in sins. That is, people had to do wrong for him to die. They had to lie for him to die, they had to cheat for him to die. They had to twist the scriptures for him to die. So he comes out in the resurrection having done what is right. Okay, having done what is right, God raises the just man. He comes back alive. So everybody who does what is right in what is right, hope this is clear to you, who does what is right in the right will be raised from the dead.

So if there's a pattern that is followed, it simply means that every one of us must do what is right according to the Scriptures. Adam didn't believe, Abraham did. So when that happens, we are found in that which is right. So when you hear Jesus Christ died for our sins, put him there. The amateur, the human government, religion, wickedness, according to the Scriptures, 2nd Corinthians 5:21, he made him a sin offering or a sin for us who knew no sin that we might Be a made him for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So in John 13:17, John writes about the act allos paracletos. Again you are reading the Old Testament where you have the allos paracletos. Your mind goes to Genesis 1, 2 and 3, Genesis 3 and 8.

The voice of God walking in the cool of the day in the Spirit. Genesis 6 and 3. My spirit shall no longer judge with man. So what brought about, what were the events around the death of Jesus? Wickedness. You know, just like the Exodus. At his height, the temple Mark 11 becomes a den of thieves. So things that broken down in Tribble B. The kingdom had been taken over. Everything had gone to his lowest helm. Just like the Exodus, Israel was crying for a messiah. They wanted a messiah, they needed one. So when John said it's here, they wanted the Messiah, but not that Messiah. They did. Like I mentioned, political messiah, social messiah, economic messiah, commercial Messiah, but not the one that came. So by and large, okay, how will God put it right? He will put it right by his spirit.

Genesis 1:1 is fulfilled by Genesis 1:2. The Spirit of God. The Spirit of God also the nations which is heaven coming into the earth. That's how it will be done, right? So to teach the darko zune of God without the pneuma of God will be an incomplete information. Righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Romans 14:17. That Basilea of God, that kingdom of God. Let's see a few of these contrasts. You know again, parables. Genesis 2, verse 18. I'll make an help meet for him. A word that's never used again for a woman. Showing you that it's a redemptive terminology. But 224 is my concern. Now. There shall be one flesh. Now that word one is the same Hebrew word. E card E C H A D. I would love you to see the usage before now. Genesis 1:5.

The evening and the morning. Were the first day. Genesis 1:5, Genesis 1:9. Gathered together into one place. One place. Genesis 3:22. He has become like as one of us. Of course, at the back of that Deuteronomy 6:4. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is together 1. Then you have Genesis 2:24. Cleave unto the word. Cleave is the Hebrew word dabak. It means to hold together or to overrun overshadow. Genesis 19:19, Genesis31 23. And he overtook him. So no doubt the one flesh here is one. One spirit together. So s Paul again using the parable of marriage, to show one that is that one coming together. That's why Jesus said, no man shall put asunder in Matthew 19, verse 4, 8. So in John 16 and verse 8, where Jesus speaks about his ascension.

And when he's come, he will reprove the world of sin. That's the allos price. Again, the use of paraclete simply means somebody who comes to your aid. It comes to your aid. So we can put that vis a vis the azar. It comes to your aid, so he will be same and he will dwell with you. So the azar is fulfilled in the paracletos. So he says here, when he's come, he will put the word of sin and righteousness of judgment, of sin. Because they believe nothing. Follow this pattern. It will convince the world of righteousness. Because I go to my Father. Of course, that is to be understood from Genesis. Sorry. John 14, which refers to the ascension. Because of the Ascension. John 14:2 and 3, John 14:13, 14 John 14:20.

That day you know, I'm in my Father, I am in you, and you are in me. So the going to my Father for you is because in that day you will find out that I am in you. So in John 17 he brings back the ikat. John 17:21, that they may be one. John 17:22, that they may be one. JOHN 17:23, that is the ekad coming together as one. And then he says, this is the Spirit, the allos parakletos. I go to my Father. Which is a shorthand of the resurrection, the ascension and the indwelling. So he says that this alloplitus will be diacozouni. It will be putting it in the right place. Exodus 29:45. I will dwell in them. The reason for the tabernacle, the reason for everything. The Spirit of God on the face of the water.

Genesis 1:2 will explain all of this. In Romans 8 and 8, Paul says, you are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit. If so, be that the Spirit of God dwells in you. If any has not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of it. Then he says, if Christ be in you, pay attention. There the body is dead to sin. The Spirit is the Zoe on the account of Dia kosune. Since God has put it right, then the Spirit is in you. So righteousness is God's work of putting everything back in what is right. What is right remains the image of God in man. Genesis 1:26 28. The only way it can happen is by his Spirit in the nations. Genesis 1 and 2. So therefore, by saying of righteousness, because. Pay attention there. Righteousness. John 16.