Notice rage there involves words they set themselves against. And all of that, so you find, is an active phrase. So in Joshua 1:8, which is our text, we said it is an instruction to a minister. It's not an instruction to a businessman, is an instruction to a minister. So if you read Joshua 1:8, let's look. You define it in your world, it will be responsibility to lead the flock, okay? And also instructions on how to do it properly. And as you make your way prosperous and have good success. And this phrase here, good success is the word sakal. It means S A K L. To deal wisely. To deal wisely. Look at the context of verse seven. Let me even. Let's even take it better. He says now, verse 1.

After the death of Moses, the servant of the Lord, he came to pass that the Lord spake unto Joshua, the son of nun Moses, minister, saying so this is. Maybe I should say that something close to this is first, second Timothy and Titus. Then he says, moses, my servant is dead. Therefore arise, go over the Jordan that Dan and all his people to learn, which has to give to them. So of Israel, every place that the soul of your fish has tread upon, I given to you. As I said unto Moses. So that is talking about leadership. It's talking about ministry, servanthood. From the wilderness and all of the places he mentioned, there shall be no man that would stand before thee all days of your life. As I was with Moses, I'll be with you. I will not fail you nor forsake you.

Be strong and be of good courage. For unto this people shall I divide for an inheritance the land which I spoke to their fathers to give them. So verse 7. Only thou be courageous and be strong, that thou mayst observe to do according to all the law which my servant commanded thee. Turn not from it to the right, to the left. That thou mayest prosper whither thou goest. That thou mayest prosper whither thou goest. So you have that word sakal, prosper, pardon me. Which means to deal wisely. To deal wisely in Genesis 3 and 6, where the serpent speaking to Eve, Genesis 3 and 6. To make one wise. Genesis 48, verse 14, He guided his hands wittingly, wittenly. So in other words, he's saying that this Genesis, through to Deuteronomy, are instructions for ministry.

So put aside by second Timothy 3:15, from a child that has known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. Verse 16. All Scripture is given by inspiration of God's profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God will be truly furnished unto every good work perfect unto every good work. Then he mentions Preach the Word, Chapter four, verse two and all of that. So this is like the immediate reference of what Paul said to Timothy. Now observe the word. This book of the law. This book of the law. Two key words there Book then the law. We said that this is critical. This book of the law.

The word book is the Hebrew word Sepha S E P H E R SE we have looked at the word Torah. Torah can be uttered, right? Torah can be said. Okay, Torah can be written. But when you say book, it must be written. So this book of the law, the word Torah we said means a subject matter is used for a subject matter. A course is used for a discussion, is used for a concept or concepts is used for a body of knowledge. So a body of knowledge can come in form of utterances given to Israel, for example. But the term book has to be committed to writing book. Now look at that phrase. In Genesis 5:1. We said that here, Moses. This shows you something. The first and the only phrase of like this in the book of Genesis.

This is the book of the generations of Adam. This is the sefer, the written record. So which means that what he has simply done is to commit what we can call the Torah into writing. It was first utterances. Now is into writing. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Torah utterance as I promised Abraham Torah ultras. But now a man who by the virtue of university education now commits the Torah into a sefer. It commits it into writing. So he says, this is the book of genealogy. We saw that the other day. Genealogy origins. So which means that why did he call it? And this is where you get the now pay attention to this. You have two words.

I'm trying to remember the Hebrew word for in the beginning God created the heaven and earth is a different word from the use of the word the book of beginnings where you have origin. Now why is Moses writing origin? I want you to pay attention to something and in your mind have 5 Romans 5:12 to 14 and see Paul exploit. What do I mean? In Genesis 5 there are two different genealogies. Adam in the image of God, mankind. Then Adam's children mankind in the image of Adam. Genesis 5:1:3. Then you can drag it down to five. So it's a book of origin. Now, if you are writing to Israel, listen well, please. And you have Israel, you are preaching the promises of God to them. Then you now decided to write a book already. It's in the utterances, a book of origins.

They say, well, he's just writing history. That doesn't make sense. That all the things righteous. No, it's not. You will now discover that he deliberately. Because if it's a book of origins, he now deliberately starts with two kinds of Adam, the one in the image and likeness of God, which we did not see. Then we now add the Adam that sinned. Romans 5, 12, 14 should be in your view, in case you didn't know, like we said, this is what systematic theology does. He now move to Cain and Abel. So he discovered you have contrast in Genesis. So which means that he wrote it to see the origin of righteousness, unrighteousness, origin of faith and unbelief. So you have the two contrasts. So within the humankind, you will have Cain and Abel.

So if we have thought initially that everybody, I mean parents, are responsible for their children's spiritual makeup, he has showed you. No, there's Cain and Abel. Then we go to Abraham. You have Ishmael and Isaac, Then you have Jacob and Esau. So by that, those two. Okay, and then you now discover that whether it isaac or Jacob or even Abel, because in the case of Abel did not even have children. So there was nothing in the genealogy about Abel. But by saying that his voice is crying out, the writer is telling you that Abel is alive. So which means that he picks the record of eternal life there. Then you have the contrast. So here I am. I am faced with the same scenario in my own world. We are now in Israel or Israel in Egypt.

I've already pictured for you that mankind, Adam and Eve out of the garden, so have matched the world. I'm now showing you the origin of what you are doing. Faith has its origin, doubt as his origin, righteousness has its origin and all of that. So which means that in writing the Torah, Moses equally is laying aside doctrine. So the generation, the book of generations from Adam was not done by Adam. It wasn't done by Abraham, it wasn't done by Isaac or Jacob. It was done by Moses. So if he's writing the book of Revelation generation, is he doing it as history? No, he also heard it. He's using it as doctrine. So therefore Genesis is doctrine. It's a teaching material. The book of Origins is not the stories of men. It's the book of origin, using the stories of men as the illustration.

Exodus 17:14. Exodus 17:14. The sepher. And the Lord said to Moses, write this for a memorial. You've never had this instruction before. Why is he told to write? Because he has been to school and there's now the tradition of writing. Write this for a memorial in a book. Re asking the ears of Joshua for I'll utterly put out remnants of Amalek from under the heavens. Write this down in a book. Exodus 24:7. And he took the book of the covenant and read in the audience of the people, and they said all that the Lord has said we will do and be obedient. So which book will he be referring to? Genesis, the book of God's promise. Exodus 32:32. This is Listen carefully now.

Yet now if thou forgive their sins, and if thou if not, blot me, I pray thee out of thy book which thou has written. Now, of course, know that he in this instance is using a figurative word, the book that you have written. Whosoever sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book. Which is for us now referring to origins. That would be in the image of God, the generations. The book of generations has nothing to do with the material anywhere. And this is where you have the concept of the book of life done in the epistles. So if it's figurative here, it's figurative there. I have a reference I want to check again. So that means Moses introduced the importance of education. Okay. Psalms 56, verse 8. Put down my tears in thy bottle. Are they not in thy book?

You know, just a reference to books. Daniel 12:1. They're precisely Philippians 4:3, Revelation 3:5, Revelation 17:8, Revelation 21:27, all showing the same reference, thy book. So. Numbers 5, 23. So the essence of writing is doctrine. And the priest shall write these courses in the book and shall blot them out with the bitter water. Numbers 21:14. Where I said in the book of the wars of the Lord, that what he did in the Red Sea that and in the books of Anon, Showing you that, I mean the Exodus, Numbers, Leviticus, you know, all that are documented. Let's go to Joshua. Joshua8,31. As Moses the servant of the Lord commanded the Jew of Israel the book of the law of Moses. Then 34 after all the he read all the word of the law.

The blessing of the curse according order is in the book of the law. Then Joshua 10:13, the book of Jasher. So the Torah is the message. Grammar, literature, history, biography, all in a literature passed across as a message. The word. Let me go back. That again. Is from another word that was safa, kapha, C A P, H, A R. It means to relate or narrate. To relate or narrate. Which means that he is relating the story to them. He's narrating, he's teaching. So the moment writing is done, grammar becomes automatic to learn. The moment you are writing. Anything written is literature. So every law of literature or literature generally, will have to apply. So which means that. The book of Genesis will be a background of Moses' instructions. Speech from Exodus to Deuteronomy. That will be the background we have seen.

It's the book of origin. It's the book of the narratives, the illustrations. He will find a common ground. So let's put it in this way, That just like the two words we find in the epistles, where you have graphe to write, that's a sefer book. Then you also have gamma, what you wrote. So the Torah is what he wrote. Graphic. Will be book of the law. Of course, Old English will have both our scriptures. From a child you have known the Holy Scriptures, all scripture. Gamma, Gafe. Gamma is the message, the content itself. What is written? What is the discussion about? The writing is the mode of the communication. Written in English, written in Greek, written in French, graphe written in figures of speech, grammar. Graphic. What is the message? The gamma.

So the writer has, as it were, liberty as to which language or context of it, which with which he will use. Moses, therefore, in writing about. God's revelation, which must have come out in the Hebrew tongue, with Hebrew culture, Ibrahim. Their nuances, their vocabularies and all of that. Moses, therefore, will have to communicate it all, right? Via another culture. He will have to communicate God building his house. Look. Look at an instance. Look at the concept of a temple. For example, Genesis 28, Where, of course, if you look at. Okay, yeah. Genesis, verse 12, where he dreamt, I.e. Jacob, and he saw the angels of God descending. Verse 12, which is in John 1:51, about the resurrection of Jesus. Then he says, behold about the God of thy father and of the God of Isaac.

The land when lies to thee will I give it. And to thy seed, of course, to thy seed. Then when he woke up, look at verse 16. The Lord is in this place. I knew it not. This is the house of God, the gate of heaven. Notice that. The house of God. The gate of heaven. The house of God. The gate of heaven. Then he rose in the morning, set up a pillar, poured oil upon it, call the place bethel. Verse 19. Now I will find Moses. Depict that. How do you mention the house of God, the gate of heaven? You are in Egypt where they have temples. Okay, so you will use that day's grammar to explain house of God, where God said, I will give you Moses, I will give you this land. I will give you and your seed.