Let's pray. Father, in the name of your Son, Jesus, we thank you this morning for another opportunity to fellowship as we study your word this morning into the afternoon. Thank you for the light that you grant us. We ask and receive clarity of thought as we study through the Scriptures in knowledge of your son, Jesus Christ. Let every mind behold Jesus Christ, your Son, as he sees us in him. He is glorified and we are edified. Amen. Amen. All right, so basically our intention this morning is to take the Scriptures wholesale. And Luke 24, verse 25, of course the background here again is that the Jesus having just been raised from the dead, he meets his own disciples. And when he does this, he had this conversation with them over the events of the day.

Then verse 25, he said unto them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself. Now we have a bit of a challenge there in either being simplistic about what he just did or being deliberate to learn what did he just do.

One of my discoveries, and it's recent actually was to find out, you know, how that the church of the first century, as we can call it now, the early church we call them, which is a bit theologically imbalanced because you don't call the church basically just those from the post resurrection, there was a church before Jesus in the sense of if there was a promise and there must have been a church, the church maybe you can now say that had a universal gathering upon resurrection. But there was the church before, you know, the death of Jesus. I'm saying that just a bit of finicky theology more so. And then you discover that in the first century church, what we refer to as the early church, that the basis of education was the church.

That is historically speaking, most of Jesus disciples were illiterates, they were fishermen, you know, farmers, etc. Etc. If you look at the complexion of the 12, you discover that the large majority were not the elite. And so in Acts 4:13 it was something similar. Let's look at two texts of Scripture, Acts 4:13 vis a vis Matthew 7:28 and then Jesus, John 7. Now in John 7:28, sometimes in the way it's summarized, we will not know the import of what they were saying. A a non, allow me use the phrase a non Pharisee Sadducee comes up is not a typical didaskalos nomosidaskalos, the teacher of the law. He comes up and he teaches through the Old Testament. And then they say in verse 28 that they were astonished at his daida chain. The way he handles systematically daida che again is systematic.

Another short form of the word systematic theology. The way he has been systematic. Dada ch is not just a phrase said in a statement. It's a combination of things said to make clarity. Then they say in 29, he taught them as one having authority and not as the scribes he taught as one having authority. In other words, he speaks authoritatively from Scripture. We're going to address that in the way we look at interpretation now. So what astonished them is the fact that when you see a fellow who is not. Let me give you an example. If tomorrow, of course, when we're in secondary school, we have this chess competition. I now had this. I don't know what school we attended, but my school. I had this jets competition. Okay, let me just say it the way I want to say.

My school won jets three times consecutively. Just. It's been years, though. And so they had this jets queens. He had the jets practical where you had to make an invention. And then somebody comes up, then he makes a car. You know, the reason why you'll be stunned is because he hasn't passed through university. He doesn't have a PhD and you say, well, but this is exactly what PhD holders eventually get to do, or experts. So that, you know, gets your attention. That's exactly what happened in Matthew 5, 7. That. Who's this guy? He just comes up, he's from where? And then he finds a way around the Scriptures. And even more that because sincerely, how many people go through university, get PhD's in mechanical engineering, and then they eventually make anything. Some of them can't even repair their cars. And they're mechanical engineers.

So you have all that. And somebody comes up, he doesn't have the degree. He's probably, you know, and he just comes up with a car. And he says, look, this is astonishing. He has more authority than the scribes. So that shows you again that obviously in the day of Jesus, in the sense of the four gospels. Allow me use that phrase. They were not. It wasn't the elitist set of people, what you can call the intelligencia of his time. Now, in John 7. In John 7 was more literal. They said that, you know, maybe because John is writing more prose than any other person. John 7. And verse 15. Okay, I'll take 14. Now about the midst of the feast, Jesus went up into the temple and taught. And the Jews marveled, saying, how knoweth this man?

Let us, having never learned, can you see the contrast? How is he so scholarly having never learned? Now when I say I haven't never learned, it simply meant he didn't pass through the order of the. Of course. Now let me just mention this. He was called a rabbi. Rabbis are today what we call Reverend. So when Nicodemus came to me and said, rabbi, that you come from God for no man. So the rabbi is like. Is not like emphasis. It's like, oh, we respect you are revered, a revered instructor, Jews, something like that. So he says that you are a teacher come from God for no man do this miracles record with him. And then, you know, so he was respected. He acquired the Reverend the rabbi by experience.

They could see that this man, from the Matthew 7:28 scenario, this man is an astute scholar in scripture. But then they are able to expose the intent of this by saying, look, how does this man know letters and the Greek? There is where you have gamma. We'll explore gamma shortly. The, the gamma. That is, how does he know literature? That's the word there. How does he know book? How is he so scholarly? You know, I've never learned. So that's a contrast. I've never learned. He. He doesn't have a history of being at the usual colleges that the Jews had in those days. Now look at the exact contrast of that in Acts 4:30. Sorry, the exact corroboration of the Acts 4:13 just like himself. So we can safely say that Jesus was not lettered. I mean that.

That baffles you now that Jesus wasn't illiterate. Can I classify him as illiterate? Not so. Not so. I'll say semi literate of his day. And he comes out here like a professor. So in Acts 4, I want you to observe something. Now, when the Jews today, when we say. We say Bible school, okay? We are referring primarily to somebody who goes to Bible school. And then we think, okay, he wants to learn the Bible. Now listen carefully. In the Jewish culture, and this is something we're going to look at, you know, much more intensely. That study of Scripture was education. That's the way. Let me, let me break it down. What I mean, you know, today. The Islamic culture has this. In the Quran education where kids are taken through the knowledge of Quran and then they are said to have.

In fact, in Nigeria they will have graduation and stuff like that. It means now that you are ingrained into their culture. Now, frankly, it was borrowed from this same culture. That is, that is the way you see an educated person. I'll take it this way. So the synagogues were actually schools. They weren't. You know, the local church meeting is patterned after the synagogue. The synagogues were actually schools. So if you look at the walls of the first century church, the world of the pre New Testament era, we are variants, and you say, what can we typify the pre New Testament era church. Allow me to use that phrase, synagogue now. And then you look at the New Testament era 4th century church semblance. What is closest to what they do? I didn't say on all fours is the Bible school of today.

It was actually where. Pay attention. I noticed that in the days of Jesus, it seemed like the majority of the crowd because there was already oppression in the system. The majority of the crowd. The majority of the crowd were the unlettered, the fishermen, you know, the carpenters, you know, all sorts of folks like that. You know, the way they became intelligent was in church. Church was where they received formal education. So the study of Scriptures is an education itself. And in Acts 4:13, notice the same slant. Acts 4:13, Having perceived verse 13 that they were unlearned and ignorant men, just what they told, John 7:15, they marveled and they took knowledge of them that they had been with Jesus. Now, don't forget that the context there was doctrine. These guys are very bold.

And when you use the word bold in the Greek, it's more of how you spoke, not what you did, but the way they handled the Scripture. So by calling them ignorant and unlearned, they are referring to the formal education they had. But their boldness did not reflect that ignorance, or the ignorance did not reflect in the boldness. So therefore we are forced, compelled, pardon me, to go back to what happened in Luke 24 and say what Jesus is doing here in Luke 24:25 through to 27, something we're going to go back to like three, four, five times today. He practically does what he was named for, a rabbi, a scholar, Gideon, Moses, the prophets, verse 27. He expounded to David all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. And so that forces us to have a review and look at. Did he do anything odd?

No, this is exactly what the Scriptures were meant for. In Nehemiah chapter 8, where we said before, in our study of the book of Luke and the four Gospels, we said that they were always, you know, the Bible is a material. We're seeing that shortly, that is written almost in a format that you need to keep checking what is being referred to. Now look, therefore, being an interpreter, he stands back and views what Jesus has just done. Now if he's going to tell us that Jesus fulfilled the scriptures, he must therefore find a corroboration of what he has done. The Old Testament, First Corinthians 15:3. How Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, how he was buried, raised again the third day according to the Scriptures.

And we said the word according to the Scriptures there just shows us that the Scriptures, that's the Old Testament books. Now the Tanakh must be read together. You read them together to come to that conclusion. So In Nehemiah chapter 8, we find something that brings to mind what Jesus has just done. Submit that this is exactly what Luke was writing. Don't forget Luke is an interpreter. And being an interpreter, you stand between two events, two worlds or more to bring to our understanding or to merge two events, two languages or two worlds. In Nehemiah 8 and 7 it is in Joshua and Bani, of course, you find that there's Ezra. We're going to see the relevance of ezra. In verse 6, Ezra blessed the Lord, the great God, and all the people answered and said Amen. And Joshua Bani, verse seven.

Now, Jamin, Akub, Shebethiah, Odijah, Messiah, Kther, Azariah, Zeuzabad, Anan, Pelel and Levis caused the people pay attention to understand the law. And the people stood in their place. They caused the people to understand the law. Now the question is the law, which in this instance will be practically the Torah, the first five books and maybe some other additional material, if at all. It's not that these folks haven't read it. So they said they caused them to understand, they made them to understand the law and the people stood in their place. So there was a grundum for the teaching ministry. Not in Acts 2:42 the same pattern is followed when Jesus rose from the dead, gave the commandments to disciples. Matthew 28, 18, 20, Acts 2:42, they continue steadfast in the apostles doctrine and fellowship. Acts 5:42, they continue to preach and teach Jesus Christ.

Observe the pattern again in Acts 11, that should be verse 22, I think. Yeah, Acts 11, when Paul brought Barnabas and here they were teaching, teaching, teaching. Yeah. 22, Sorry, Barnabas brought Paul. Pardon me. And then they taught and taught and taught. In 26 they taught much people. Acts 14 again, verse 22 and 23, confirming the brethren 21, 22. And then 23, they taught Acts 15, verse 35, preaching and teaching. Acts 15:35. So it was a norm. Acts 20, Paul, Acts 19, sorry, Paul again, verse 7, 8, 9, Acts 20:20, Acts 20:32. You know, you look at all that. So there was a consistent pattern that we will find within the Scriptures. And the reason is. And Jesus. The parable of the sower is very instructive. It's quite a big parable. Notice that the parable of the sower.