Luke24. I want us to look at some issues headlong. Verse 25. Hopefuls and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded all scriptures, the things concerning Himself, first. Corinthians 15 and verse 3. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, was buried and rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. And maybe we should just add verse 5. It was seen of Cephas, then of the 12, and then verse 14. If Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain. And your faith is also vain. Verse 17. If Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. You are yet in your sins. Nehemiah, chapter 8.

You know, Ezra was a teacher of the law, the Old Testament. And we're going to need Ezra in a way shortly, maybe today or tomorrow. Ezra, sorry. Nehemiah 8, 8, 7. First they caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. So there is the duty of the teacher. James 3:1 says, you know, don't desire to be a teacher because you have the strictest of judgments. The teacher therefore must do his work well. The stricter of judgments must do his work adequately. So every time I undo the Scriptures, I am either interpreting it correctly or incorrectly. Now, this doesn't mean that if I'm incorrect, I am dishonest, okay?

But I also can have an attitude of haste, selfish. One thing I. I think I saw someone mention this one time. I'd forgotten who said it. He said, if I approach the Scriptures with an attitude of iniquity, he said, my interpretation will be wrong. Which means that the attitude with which I should read the Scriptures is that of the faithfulness of God and my faith in it. So before we go further, we know we tried to look at the importance of faith. Firstly, we said, he said to them, oh, fool, slow of heart to believe in. Mark 16:14, he says, operating them for their unbelief and hardness of the heart. Apistias clericardian. A numbers experience.

That is with three and a half years or so or three years or two years of Jesus consistently teaching every day, yet your heart is slow or hardened sclerocardium. Then that presents for us that the audience of Jesus is not different from the earliest of Moses. And if you look at what I did in the last session and said Picked up all the prophets as well. Their audience was similar. That's the only seeming difference in the epistles. Because in the epistles you are writing to the church, those who are believers. So the closest of the prophetic letters or books will be the Book of Hebrews. The Book of Hebrews that has a content for the believers about to be persuaded. And then the non persuaded. Let us come boldly to the non persuaded to persuade others. Pardon me, you have come, you are.

You find all those phrases. Book of Hebrews. So the writer, the reader of Book of Hebrews. Again, don't forget that the Book of Hebrews has a Jewish audience, but a wider implication. And how does. Let me. Let me give you a hint of that it's a Jewish audience by saying spoke to our fathers by the prophets, a Jewish audience. And then you look at it was almost the only person who quoted Jeremiah 31 the way he did 33, 35 to your fathers. When I took them by the hand and let them out of Egypt, you know it stood out. But you know that the implication of the Book of Hebrews is gentile salvation. What do I mean? Now if I say the Jew is salvation is meant for the Jews, that will mean the Jew will be saved.

But if I say no only for obedient Jews, that means the issue is not being a Jew is being obedient. So by Hebrews 2, if we neglect so great salvation, which at first was spoken up by the Lord and confirmed to us by them that heard him. God also bearing them witness Hebrews 2, 3 and 4 with signs, wonders, diverse miracles, gifts of the Holy Ghost according to will, that already shows you that the wider implication goes to the Gentile nation. Then if you again, if you look at Hebrews 3:19, add not your heart, be your provocation. Let us fear. Let the promise of entering the salvation of consciousness of Hebrews 4:1, that shows you again that he has given you a condition. And some people believe that the writer of Hebrews is using conditional salvation. No. Is a condition for salvation. Hebrews 4.

2 Again it says the gospel preached to us was preached unto them. But the word preached did not profit them, not mean mixed with faith in them that heard him. So by Hebrews 4:11, let us labor to enter into the respondazo. Be eager to believe. That shows you that the issue is faith, not natural origin. Then if you now go to Hebrews 11, where he makes distinctions, by starting with Abel, he has made it a global, universal salvation. Abel Noah Enoch or Abel Enoch Noah, then you now had Abraham. And in case the Abraham gets you stuck by including Rahab. Okay, rehab, the a lot in that story shows you obviously that the writer is speaking in a general sense.

Hebrews 13:20 and all of that shows you then Hebrews 12:22, you are come to Zion, city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, non beautiful company of angels to the church of the firstborn which is registered in heaven. The spirit of just memory perfected at last. And then all of that. The writer of Hebrews is like the Old Testament rework. That's why people believe that it's Apollos who wrote it. I don't think so. It might be, might not be. Some believe it's Priscilla. I want to believe that one. So the thing is, you know, there was a Jewish audience, but the book of Hebrews gives you a head start in how to read the Old Testament. A Jewish audience, but with a wider implication. By talking faith and unbelief, it shows you it's not natural descent, it shows a faith descent instead.

And by not by picking out Isaac instead of Ishmael, Jacob instead of Esau, again, that shows you it's not natural descent, but rather faith. So the writer of Hebrews will be a mirror of that Old Testament context of the audience, and so on and so forth. So we stand therefore at this juncture of being able to read the Old Testament the way Paul read it, the way the church in Colossi, Philippi, Corinth, Rome, etc. Etc. Ephesus, the way they read it, Galatia. So we said the other time that then the point of reference for us will be what's the unifying factor? Why is there a contradiction? There was no contradiction. We only need to find out the unifier in the language, the context of their world.

Just the same way that if I pick an epistle of the churches, there are certain things, even as close as it is Greek, with a closer genre grammar. I will still need a little bit of homework in certain expressions and things that were said. For example, when Jesus is called the Son of God in to the Jews, they understand it from the perspective of the inheritance. But to the Gentile it is a direct assault on Caesar. Jesus is Christ, not Caesar. Jesus is the Son of God, not Caesar. Again, it's the same theology, but the context is different. That's why Romans 1 Paul says an apostle of Jesus Christ separated the gospel of God which he had promised aforementioned fourth time in the Scriptures by his prophets concerning his Son, Jesus Christ made the seed of David according to the flesh.

Then Declared the Son of God. Now why would he declare the Son of God? Yes, first and foremost declare the Son of God amongst the prophets. But Romans 1:4, when he declared the Son of God again, is to distinguish Jesus from Caesar. How? By the resurrection from the dead, that spirit of holiness, power. So which means his resurrection distinguishes him from the prophets to the Jews, but to the Gentile from Caesar. Again, that's the context of those statements. So we are found in our world and we need to relate with that world. We said that interpreting the text you must go back to that world. So when you see people like Paul having the scriptures, parchments, records, history, it's because that is what it takes to teach the Scriptures. And so the teacher of scriptures must engage regularly.

It's not a short distance race, it's a long distance journey. Look at some phrases we have tried to look at, for example the phrase eternal life. And we have said that eternal life is the life of God. And if you come home to the Pentecostal, they begin to find all sorts of phrase and terminology. But then without an Old Testament explanation of that phrase, I will be lost in words. So we have different mountains to climb interpretation. I guess the first mountain is to come down is to calm down and not be in a hurry. And I must reiterate what I said earlier of not taking the Bible as something that can be read on face value. I will do my best tomorrow or maybe during the week to see historical facts of how the church learn scripture.

Like I mentioned earlier on, the atmosphere of today's Bible school was that church service, well, amongst other activities, but that atmosphere of going to school to learn. For many of the disciples of the early era, their contact with formal education was the teaching of scriptures. Their contact with formal education was the teaching of scriptures. Which means, and I am forced to now accept E.W. Kenyon, who says often that eternal life makes a man love education, which means discipleship makes a man love education. Somehow we have bastardized the word discipleship to mean people dressing one kind alone. Well, that also involves emergency, because when you believe alike, you are going to dress alike. But then it's more of the educational facility that the church provides where your contact.

Which means that unlike someone asked me one Bible school meeting, I said, is it now necessary for us to learn grammar? You know, that's an odd question, will be an odd question in the early church because you are actually going to learn grammar. So look at, now look at the kind of war we fight against Greek and Hebrew today. You know, it becomes very odd because there was no way as a Greek. In fact, I found out that many times Paul and Peter would teach with translators. They will practically teach and then have somebody take it in your own language. Then after a while, they will develop the ability to combine the Greek, the Hebrew, and the language that was prevalent historical documents. So how would you take that away from our world?

That if there is a necessity to say, what did this statement mean in that world? And in the context of the grammar, what did he mean? So we are therefore interpreters and translators. So our first mountain is to come down the mountain of impatience, then to unify the grammar. Oftentimes if you miss the grammar, you miss the meaning. You cannot have a meaning when the grammar is wrong. So let me revisit something. Jesus has delegated his authority to the Scriptures. The Scriptures give him authority. And we said there that we must therefore see history with theology and we must not separate it. So look at the tons and tons of work we will have to do with the Old Testament.

A question that arose that I thought through a few years back was that, did the Jews of the day of Jesus, did they think that God was evil and Jesus came to correct it? I won't answer that question because you get it. Was it that they thought that Jesus, God was evil, Jesus came to do the firefighting mission, Was that it? Why would they think so? For example, do you know that when Jesus used the phrase Heavenly Father in the four Gospels. Now listen carefully now, you know we said that a statement can have multilateral meanings. Now we can look at it and say, well, what he was basically saying is, you'll be your father in the resurrection. I will say that God was not a father in the Old Testament.

We are going to be incorrect inasmuch as, yes, he sought for sons right in the new birth. But we do know that he called the nation of Israel symbolically his son, his first son. We know that by calling Abraham a father of many nations, that was God giving Abraham his name. So that is just by contextual systematic study of Scripture. So when he says heavenly Father, Jesus is teaching from the Old Testament texts. It is. It's teaching from the Old Testament text. So were they thinking that way? God was so evil and then Jesus came and then he just took away that impression. That statement will have to be investigated. But before we go there, he's going to gradually do that is to say that we must see ourselves as translators. Every teacher is a translator and an interpreter of scripture.