Now it's believed that Ezra, who is one of the outstanding teachers of the Old Testament, wrote this. 2 Corinthians 36, verse 14. To 17. Moreover, all the chief of the priests and the people transgressed very much after all the abomination of Eden and put the hands of the Lord which they had allowed in Jerusalem. The Lord God of their Father sent to them by his messengers, rising up bedtimes and sending them. Watch this. Because he had compassion on his people and on his dwelling place. So that's the reason why he sends preachers. Look at the next statement. But they mocked the messengers of God. That is. That's Sodom and Gomorrah. Okay, good. And misused his prophets until the wrath of the Lord arose against his people till there was no remedy. Can you see? So can you see?

The wrath of God is not a reaction. It is what happens when we reject God's word. So we can say in this scenario, God did everything possible. You can say again that Moses did everything possible to communicate the law of God to these people. How many of us can even do 40 days? He did 40 years. Noah had won 20 years. You thought Noah was just looking up in the morning, talking about the Ark? No. They were teachers of scriptures. They may not have. I look at it. They may not. They didn't have all the 39 books. But what they taught is what we have in 39 books. If I don't even say 66 books, look at Hosea 11, verse 7 to 9. Hosea 11, verse 7 to 9. And my people were bent to backsliding from me.

Though they called them to be the most High, none at all will exalt him. How will I give thee up, Ephraim? How shall I deliver thee, Israel? How shall I make thee as Admah? How shall I set thee as a born? My heart is torn within me. My repentance are kindled. Together, verse nine. I will not execute the first sins of my anger. I will not return to destroy Ephraim. For I am God and not man, the Holy One in the midst of thee. And I will not enter into the city. So again we see words of things that he had to just look on and his willingness to save in spite of the attitude lamentation 3:20, Which, again, is language. Lamentation. 3:20. I know we read verse 22, but look at 20. Okay, good. I'll start from 18. And I hope.

And I said, my strength. And my hope is praised from the Lord. Remembering my affliction and mystery, the wormwood and the gall, my soul hath them still in remembrance and is humbled in me. And I call to my mind, therefore have I hope. It is of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassion fails not. They are new every morning. Then he says, great is thy faithfulness. So lamentations will have. Okay, one minute. Yeah, it will have. Okay. Verse 33. For it does not afflict willingly, nor grieve the children of men. It does not afflict willingly. It is not his will to crush under his feet all the prisoners of the earth. So within the context of the Old Testament, we find these terms, which are permissive tenses, that in no way depicts the will of God on any matter.

So we find in many instances God's frustrations, like I said yesterday, the book of Job before, become a template, where now the question oftentimes is, does it? Did Job know? Obviously was ignorant. And obviously, you know, he spoke rashly. Did God defend himself? He need not. He said. He need not. He said, go to Genesis. So, which means that something happened from Genesis that shows a pattern that we can know. This is why this happens. Clearly, from Job the first three chapters, or just the first two, it is clear to us where the evil came from. And we said there was no conversation. It was just poetry. Poetry of. Just like Revelation 12, who accuses us before God daily. No, that's what that. There's nothing like that. Or Jesus and Satan having a conversation.

If Jesus and Satan had a conversation, then the people he had a conversation with were the Pharisees, the Sadducees. Those were the people, the princes of this world. So the same way Job's conversations are interactions he had with men. Or Job's, you know, experience. Isaiah 5, verse 4 to 6. Look at God's lamentation. He's grieving. What could I have done more to my vineyard than I have not done in it? Wherefore When I looked that you bring forth grapes, he brought it forth wild grapes. Now go to. I will tell you that I will do to my vine. I will take away the edge thereof it shall be eaten up and broken down. The world thereof it shall be trodden.

Now, now let me ask you, where in the four Gospels does this mirror Mark 11 he saw the tree and it did not have fruit, for the time of the figs was not yet so Jesus spoke to the fig tree symbolically of what Israel as a nation had represented. That's what God went on. It spoke to the victory. So when you read that narrative, then the temple narrative, then the Mark 11, 23:24 narrative, it becomes clearer to you. It appears that more in the Old Testament we find God is frustrated. Either Genesis 3 or 4 or 6. So what we have is basically a braising in idioms is lamentation. When he says I will make it waste, he's just saying I only will take responsibility because I did nothing. It's not saying I take responsibility because I made it happen.

I take responsibility because I did nothing. So the Hebraism use of God's word as taking responsibility again shows his love. In Ecclesiastes 11 or 10, sorry, verse 8 we find a cause and effect nature narrative, a cause and effect narrative. And verse 8, Sorry, 10, verse 8 he that digs a pit shall fall into it. Whosoever breaks an edge, a serpent shall bite him. So just like we read Jeremiah 30, 15 and 19 where God is rejected, he does not insist on his own rights. Just like 1 Corinthians 3:13 teaches us, can we therefore say that the law of sowing and reaping, which is Genesis 8:22 seed, time and harvest shall not cease. Which means thou set the course of events in human history. If you sow disobedience, you will not reap eternal life.

So we cannot ignore the cause and effect I said next day in Galatians 6:7, 8, where Paul says whatever a man sows, the same shall he reap is right there in the New Testament writings, giving you head starts to the flesh and the Spirit. Is therefore clear that what we find in the Old Testament is not a problem if only we will do three things. Know the language, read the contents and place everything in context. Know the language, read the contents and place everything within context where a phrase is used. Just reading further. All right, look at the statements of Jesus. The things he said over Jerusalem, the things he said will happen quickly. And people still believe that, oh, the signs of the end Time. God is going to do this. Yet let's assume that's what he's talking about in Matthew 24.

Yet he tells the people, ensure you run for your safety. How does that, how is that? For bad reason? Many times his warnings are being used for his actions. His judgments look at God like an earthly judge in a very interesting way. Mr. So so, and so you have committed this and therefore you shall die. And I have not seen a judge bring out the gun and shoot the man. If the man was lied against, we say the judge is an unjust judge. But if it is true that the man did kill, and the judge says, you shall die, no judge says, I will kill you. By saying you shall die, it means you will receive punishment for it. The day you eat of it, you will die. So the question is, who does the execution?

That is why in the epistles, sin is personified. Let me explain what I mean. Whilst we have. In the Hebrew, you have avon, which is used for wickedness. And sin oftentimes related with an imbalance in the human body, that is something that is not complete. So this is the way the Hebrew paints sin, like a disease. So if it is allowed to fester, it will destroy. Now Paul is in the Greek world, rather he uses amateur, where you miss the mark, where you come short. So both ways sin affects man. It is self destruct. You don't say. A doctor who diagnosed a sickness is the cause of it. God's judgment to diagnose and tell you the implication. Sometimes he says in his wrath, which we have seen, is his frustration.

So you will find him, just like a doctor, tell you the justice this will happen. He will prefer medication where necessary, and the judge will do the same. So the executor is seen. I mean, look at the whole world today. The whole world today in 2020 is practically submissive to an unseen thing. Say it's a virus. Who has seen it? Nobody said so. There's an unseen reality that in his own. And you say, where did it come out from? It came out from man, from what we have gathered so far. So what I'm saying is that let's bring that home. I mean, what have I done now? I'm interpreting. Let's bring that home today. You know, we can say if I'm writing a 20th century 2020 transition, I can say I can use virus for sin. It's contagious.

You can get it by seeing, by hearing. That's a translation. So Paul used AM for Avon. You have missed the mark. Where have you missed the mark with yourself. You are falling short of the image of God of Genesis 1:26 28. So sin destroys man. God's warnings, judgments, and sobriety and soberness towards sin has to do with man. Therefore, we mustn't term justice as evil or God's judgment as evil. Within the judgment of God will come the justice of God, and He lets us know the judgment or the justice in his love. So we have that duty. We have that duty to fully unearth from the Old Testament this very important, delicate information. So you are faced. Let me just round off on that with the language. What kind of language? Know the language, read all the contents and place everything within the context.

I said yesterday that knowledge without context is not understanding. Understanding is where you are able to contextualize your knowledge. Take a 15 minutes break.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/