Because it was used also for in idol worship, which is actually the major thing. It was also the title of the chief accountant. I think it's just whether I have it in written form. There was a title given to the elders, But later on there was now a provision for agricultural produce. Basically it was more of a practice than a law, more of culture than a law. And Israel lived in that world. It wasn't so clear, was ambiguous. That's why the Genesis account shows ambiguous. Look at what Jacob did in Genesis 28. He said, if you do this for me, I'll pay 10. It was a culture. Genesis 14 was a culture. Some other books will call it an oriental culture. So which means it preceded Abraham. It was a practice of their world. Now imagine you are going to now teach.

How do you now teach that to a gentile audience? A gentile audience that had gone through a lot of reformation. Rome, for example. So Paul will stand there and he will need to deal with that world and this world, that language and this language. Now let's leave Genesis now and go to Exodus. Exodus will now have another distinction is that in Genesis, aside from Abraham's nomadic movements, he was. We're talking about a family, not a nation. So in Exodus, we're not talking about a nation, not a family. A family. Then Abraham. Let's look at Abraham, Sarah, Isaac. Let's add Ishmael and Agar, his servants, Eliezer. So it's a household. But by the time you get to Exodus, you are of course, from Joseph's foray into Egypt, you now have a nation. Something also happened that Pharaoh now gives an edict for all the land.

So the context of what has changed, you are no longer dealing with. Okay, Genesis 18:18, now 26:5 Abraham. Genesis 26:5. He obeyed my voice, kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes. That's Abraham. Genesis 18, Verse 19. Abraham will command his Children and his household after him, his children and household. So that's family. But Exodus, the background will be a nation. So look at your own world, your house vis a vis, even your estate, your street. Or it's just like when we're in Government college, we had this hostel called Duplex. Don't mind it's nothing. It's just one bungalow. We call it Duplex. Why is it called Duplex? Because it has different compartments. I took somebody there recently, I don't know who it was. When I went to Government college and I showed the person my corner said this corner was a big place.

And in your corner, you now have your world. You can now design what you like, cover it and all of that. But that's where it stops, you know, Then you have the boarding house, then you have the school. So as it gets wider, your context of walls has to change. So if we move from Genesis, even towards the end, we have a kingdom already, a nation. Then we go to Exodus. You now have a kingdom, then a nation. So look at this now. Abraham in his household, as a father of his house, he followed culture to honor Melchizedek. His own world is different from Moses, even though we are all about the same promise that God made. Let me add this for those of us who are particular about what I'm about to say.

You know, we can say that the book of Genesis is about Abraham. You get my point? I will show you what I mean. It's like the book of Acts of the Apostles is actually about Paul. It's not any apostles. How many apostles did you read about? And what did Luke do? Luke is writing to Theophilus, obviously, to defend Paul, who was at that point before the judge was to be taken to court. So the first thing he shows in Luke is that Jesus did not break any law of the land or any law of the Old Testament Jesus handed over to Peter. So he has to start with Peter to authenticate what Paul is. That's why Peter goes with Gentiles first, then Paul also does. So you will say that the book of Acts is about Paul.

By Acts 9, Paul is saved in 28 chapters. By Acts 13. He begins ministry in 28 chapters. So 13, 14, 15, 16, all through 28. Sixteen of the chapters are about Paul solely, except Acts 15, where there was a debate and all of that. And notice again something similar in Luke and Book of Acts. This man has done nothing wrong. Pilate said it, Festus said it. This man has done nothing wrong. There's nothing he has done. But because he has appealed to Caesar, let's let him go. He has done nothing wrong. So he's saying that this is Jesus whom you have believed. What's Theophilus? He didn't do anything wrong. This is the Paul I'm asking you to defend. So he, therefore Jesus is the A part, Paul is the B part. But in defense of Paul's gospel.

Now, Paul's gospel and Jesus is the same thing. So you can know the focus of a book. By the time you get to Exodus, you will know that Moses is saying the promise God made to our fathers and is not referring to Abel or Noah, even Enoch, but he uses Abel, Noah and Enoch to show a background. Then he has to go to Adam as a prototype of sin and death, and then faith and the faithfulness of God. So it is an Abraham concept, the promise made to our fathers. And again, look at it. Look at how Those who lived 900 years, he gave them one chapter, Abraham, how many years did he live? You hear from, you hear about ABRAHAM From Genesis 11 to Genesis 50. So whose book is it? Let me show you what I'm talking about. 39 Chapters.

Because you can't mention Joseph, that's Abraham. You can't mention Isaac. Abraham, Jacob, Abraham, Abraham. So Genesis is Abraham. So in their world again is the ancient Near Eastern. So therefore in the use of the word Torah, verses 26, verse 5, we have said Torah means instruction, regulation, doctrine. Listen well to what I just said. Doctrine, explanation, regulations, utterances, rules. So the moment and when I say nomos, which is the Greek translation, it therefore can mean doctrine. It can also mean regulation. Torah is also used for laws of the land, regulations, edicts. So the fresh law of Moses must be given its contextual meaning. Unpack the word. It is from the Hebrew word yara Y A R A H which means is used basically for an archer shot, where you shoot an archer, arrows and all of that bow and arrow.

And then you have it to set something that is set for you to do, to teach or to instruct. So the context must be in view, the context of that world. So Genesis and Exodus is ancient Near Eastern. You will not get it. Look at before the colonial powers came to Nigeria, the king was, you know, an absolute authority. Absolute authority. So when they say kabec, I mean in the Yoruba land, it means a lot of things, you know. So if they now say to you now, and they say, okay, let us, let us stay with the ancient traditions. I remember having to go to the grave site to Bury my dad. And then there were a lot of things they were saying. He said, well, you can't enter this until you are a prince. A lot of other things he said.

So went into the place and then they showed us the grave of some people for 200 years, 300. And he said, this is your great, great. And I was laughing. And he did not have a great sight. It was just sand. Said, this one is here. He said, your dad's body is going to be here. This is for him. I said, you know. And he said, you know, nobody can come here. This is sacred place. And all of that you and I know. If the government of the day decides that want to use that place for football pitch, so be it. So be it. Because it's only sacred because people have left that way. It's in that world that you can keep that tradition. Things have changed. So the king of that world may even be the counselor of today.

I'm trying to say that you must bring these to your world and say, well, this was then. So when you talk about the tithe, and this is a very sensitive area, you know, the tithe is a culture that did not emanate from God. It's a culture, an earthly culture, oriental culture, ancient Near Eastern culture. But it is not just the tithe. So let us look at Moses debacle. Abraham is moving, nomadic. He moves. The Bible calls him that. You know, he didn't have a fixed tent. It was moving. It was even intense. You know, I'm trying to. If you look at Genesis 11 through, they were always moving. Now they are now in Egypt. Egypt is a nation. And because it's a nation, it has its own structure. Egypt is not a family house, it's a nation. It has its structure. It has.

Let's look at today's world. It will have its own policemen, it will have its own security services. It will have this, it will have that. The makers of law, it will have this. And because in the ancient Near Asia, Near Eastern time, they were very rich in religious worship. That's why it was strange to you to hear. How can Nebuchadnezzar say that now? If anybody does not bow, you know, to me, throw them into the, into. Into the fire. Or Nebuchadnezzar says, okay, this and that. Why is that so? Because worship was. Was part of the national culture. It was part of it. So when you say Melchizedek, king of Salem, okay, is also the priest of the most high, which means that he Functions both what? Government and worship. Government and worship. So now let's go to Egypt. They are in a nation.

They've been there for over 400 years, Where there are rules and regulations. This is not, you know, your son, your only son. Let's even add the children he had afterwards. Let's even add the Jacob's family, the wives, the children, the servants. Compare them to what happened 400 years after, where historically there were about 3 to 4 million. And they lived Egypt now. Which means that in the Exodus, Moses will have to provide leadership like the president of a nation. If you miss this context, you miss everything. So imagine if. Pay attention, please. It takes them out. Then the only time he wants to see them is doing church services. Three million people say, okay, we meet on Sundays and Wednesdays. Everybody else shows up. I don't know, I don't know. On Monday and then they go.

And then on Wednesday, Adonai the year, and they go. What kind of society will you think will be? Don't forget, they have left a structured society. They are now on an exodus, which means that he will have to provide leadership to them as a national leader and a religious leader. So in Exodus 18, when his brother in law, sorry, father in law, Jethro. Came, he came to visit him. And then he saw him. He said, Verse 10, Blessed the Lord who hath delivered you out of the hand of Israel Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who had delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians. And I know that the Lord is greater than all the gods. So Jethro is not a. Is not Israel, but is a believer.

For in this thing, then when they are desperately he was above them. Jethro took a burnt offering, sacrifice for God. And Aaron came and all the eight bread, Father in law before God. Then he now saw him. Moses now sat down, verse 13 to judge the people. And the people stood by Moses from morning till evening. Now the word here, look at 15. The owner asked him. He said, moses, what is this thing that you do to the people? Why sit thou there by yourself? People stand by thee for morning to evening. He said, because the people come unto me to inquire of God. Okay, to inquire of God. And the word. To inquire. There is the word da rash to seek. Why is that happening? Because they have left Egypt. So to seek. What will God have us do?

So you can see that Moses was an intermediary, as it were, to inquire of God. Look at verse 22. Of course, the guy he now advised him and cancelled him and said, look what you are doing. Verse 17 is not good. You wear yourself out and even the people. It's too heavy for you. Thou art not able to perform it thyself alone. I'll give you counsel. He says in verse 20, Thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws and shall show them the way wherein they must walk and the work that they must do. So split that into three things. Executive powers. Are you there? Judicial powers and legislative powers. So the first thing you must see from this point is that you are dealing with a nation who's following what I'm saying here.