I remember having said this to you, that the epistles. Now, yeah, we've called the epistles the explanation. Yes, yes, we're going to see the relevance of that. But the epistles were shortened versions of teaching sessions. What do I mean? To be an intelligent, faithful teacher of scriptures today, I must go back to their world. That means if they are in the service right now, what they will be doing will be. They would have efficient, even though I'm teaching efficiency. They will have Colossians, even though I'm teaching Colossians. What they will have is Genesis to Malachi. Let me repeat that again. That is, you won't be a good student of Scripture if all you have is the Epistles. And let me put it in this format. You can therefore call words used in the epistles like a packed briefcase.

You know, if I say, for example, that this is my work briefcase, well, the truth is that phrase needs to be unmundled. Which books are there? What does it refer to? So let me throw that back at you. That means the epistles will use shorthands of long narratives. And if a quick, short tempered reader, you're likely to enter a lot of error. Let's again look at what Paul says. Christ died for our sins. Catheter's graphite. It should amaze you that he's referring to no verse. He's referring to all the Old Testament a sentence. That is a short form of 39 books. Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And what is behind that single phrase are hundreds into thousands of pages. Therefore, it means that the phrases of the New Testament can be called mobile words.

I call them for the reference of Today, portable words, portable terms. In other words, as a teacher of scripture, those words will appear punchline. What I'm about to say now seems to be a little bit of a contradiction of things we have said earlier, but it's not. I call it elevated thinking, which means, allow me use this phrase, that the epistles will appear many times to be punchline statements. You know why they are? Because the readers of those letters had other materials. So what unifies. Pay attention. What unifies the book of Romans through to Revelation are the Old Testament books. So you have short phrases, which means behind major themes of the New Testament are events, narrations. So I will sum up 40 years and say redemption, Apollo, truces or Lutron. 40 Years, maybe soon. 40 Years, should we say 40 years?

Maybe 430 years will be used as one word, redemption. And what happened in the event will also be words. I'll use a single term. But then I have many narratives. So therefore, as a teacher of scriptures, my use of words must have a mobile narrative. What would I be? A mobile narrative. That means the narrative of words will be found in the Old Testament Scriptures. If you have ever learnt writing and you learn the shorthand, a shorthand, you get somebody who can write shorthand. Why? Because you want the fellow to quickly document many things quickly. So you say, and so therefore we will build 6500 flat. Are so and so estate. So so and so date. And this fellow compresses what you have said in two words. Now it will be very unfortunate for the reader not to have the background of the shorthand.

So the epistles will stand as a shorthand of longer narratives. So therefore, we can therefore say, and this is a danger we face in our world, pay attention. Now we face the danger of assuming what we don't know in the day that Paul wrote to Ephesus. Of course, the Ephesus letter is a general one. Let's say Corinth, let's say Romans, rome, they had 39 books. Not just that, they also had the oral delivery of the four gospels. Not just that, they had a background explanation of the 39 books. So the moment Paul says redemption, the sit back, or it says predestination by using pre, destination or foreknowledge or before the foundation of the world. Everybody knows. Now look at this. Nehemiah says they are teaching the Torah. The Torah is Genesis. Then you have Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy.

David talks about the law being the delight of his heart. The Book of Psalms. Pay attention. So which means that when they Use similar words in the Old Testament. They have a story, narrative. What's the narrative? Without the narrative, the words become vague. So if Paul says redemption, Paul therefore is letting you see there must be a slave market. Now a slave market where you have the different words are used for that. But let's say you have the lutrons, the price paid, the lutroses, then you have the Apollo tropes and all of that. When it says slave market, you ask yourself in your Bible, don't forget your Bible is not efficient. Your Bible has 39 books. In your Bible, slavery is in Exodus.

And so the narrative of that world will have Pharaoh, it will have the children of Israel, but it will also have before the foundation of the world, or predestination, which means the promise God made before the slavery happened, Genesis. So every phrase has a narrative. You can't explain the term redemption and Israel is not narrated. How would you explain redemption? There's no Egypt, there's no setting free, etc. Etc. So those are short forms, called them punchlines of a bigger narrative. When you use the word lead, follow, inheritance, led to an inheritance, led again is Exodus. There's an exodus through to a land. When you use the word inheritance, sin. So you have words that are packed, shortened because it is a waste. Okay, let me explain this. Have you seen pharmacists and doctors interact? You probably would like waste what they both do.

And then the doctor is writing the prescription and then you want to read the prescription. They say you go to school and then they pass it across to the pharmacist. And pharmacist understands what's said, you know, and then you just see three sentences and the pharmacist, he goes there and begins to pack out things that was just three sentence or three words shortened. They both understood what they are saying. It took them years of study. There are narratives behind those words. If for example, a lawyer tells you something like it's a crime, you know, and then you say what do you mean by a crime? Then he brings out a big book he hasn't told you or she hasn't told you that he went through five, six years of training to understand what a crime is.

So to you, the bystander crime is a shorthand. But then why do you think people go to school for six years to learn a word? No, that's just a short form of longer and bigger narratives. Let me sit down. If you follow what I'm saying here, there are bigger and wider narratives to those words. You have the word baptized. Many of us think baptized has to do with John. No, John came to explain an Exodus. And so because John was going to explain at Exodus, he had to use water. And that's why he goes to Jordan. Jordan was the second Exodus call it when they, you know, they left Egypt for the wilderness and they couldn't. They went through the Red Sea. The second time they went through Jordan. And John goes to Jordan to demonstrate what Jesus is about to do.

So baptized, therefore will be the time. Every time you read baptized, you don't have anything in Genesis for baptized, because there was no lutrosis or apollutrosis in Genesis. You don't have it in Genesis. None of the patriarchs was a slave. Maybe Joseph in a sublime way, but not Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Key elements of the grace of God and the promise of God. So by using baptism, the first thing on your mind is not John the Baptist is the Red Sea. Baptism is not. Is a tough experience because something dies, then something is delivered from it. Baptism also, when you use faces like shepherd will be Moses. Moses in the wilderness. From his experience of leadership 40 years, he takes Israel through the wilderness. Shepherd. Shepherd is also an Exodus phrase.

When you say sheep, therefore you must refer to either a nation, a family, or a congregation. When you use sanctify will mean you have been in Egypt for long. It's time to get you out of Egypt. You are not Egyptians, even though you have been there for hundreds of years, but you are not Egyptians. You are my people. And it takes that not just in Egypt, they are meant to be sanctified through the wilderness when they went to Canaan, amongst idol worship. So sanctified will therefore be God's purchased possession and how he treats that possession and how they treat God as well. So it therefore means that within those short words, I call them punchlines. You we have. And therefore it means that the old explanation of saying the Epistles are the explanation of Scriptures might have to be questioned.

Not because it is incorrect, but because it needs further explanation. Because the Epistles therefore will always require the narratives of the Old Testament where the words were developed from. Do you know that every feast we use or mention in the Epistles has to do with the Exodus? Right from the Passover, even the baptism feast of the unleavened bread, the first fruits, the tabernacles, the jubilee, everything is an Exodus narrative. The atonement, the leavened bread, Pentecost, Passover, Jubilee, they are all Exodus narratives. What my Exodus narrative means there must be in teaching an Exodus or sorry, in mentioning those phrases, there must be an Exodus in mind. So because if you are teaching baptism, they ask where are we coming out of from? And where are we headed for? Where were we before? The narrative behind it is Pharaoh, Egypt, bondage, slavery.

And so never therefore will the word redemption mean what God took. Because in the narrative behind the word, Apollo, trust and Lutros and Lutron is Pharaoh and God. So therefore, in explaining the concept, the story behind the concept has to be explained. When we say the law we've seen is in Genesis, also in the Exodus, where the law is given, animal is killed. And when you get to Leviticus 15, 16, 17, where you have the atonement, then you see why then was one of the ghosts driven away? If the atonement is what it is today, which is from the Khofites, a reconciliation. In my perian language, I would think atonement means you are angry, let me pacify you very loose, which means that you are using a word without a narrative. The atonement will mean bringing together.

And whatever was the dividing line is what the goat of escape took away. So the goat of escape takes away what brought about the separation. And don't forget that something critical was done by Moses. Moses equates the Exodus with what happened to Adam and Eve. In the garden was also a land in view, a tree, and they were out of it. The subject of sacrifice. I thought sacrifice is what God takes. No, sacrifice is what God does. So you have all those phrases, all the feasts, the Passover, the feast of Pentecost, everything is to celebrate the Exodus, a deliverance from the power of darkness, as we call it, the Lastarian. Basically, the pacifying will not be a word used to pacify God.

First John 2:2 will we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous, who is the propitiation for our sins, not only for our sins, but for the whole world. He is the propitiation, he is not the recipient of the propitiation. Lastorion is not what God takes, is what God gives. Because in Egypt God did not take. God gave. And a subject like righteousness, something we'll tackle maybe on Saturday next week. Saturday the subject of righteousness again will find its meaning. I'll throw the mix to us because we usually will start using the word righteousness from what God said to Abraham, Genesis 15:6, and he was declared righteousness. But righteousness is a bigger word than thinking. Somebody asked the well, you didn't do well, you're a sinner. You're a crazy guy. And so God somewhere just says, you know what?

Let me just forget what you have been doing since you are now righteous, you are clean. That robs us of a lot of things. By using that singular narrow prism of the word righteous, we forget that the word tzedakah, when it is used by Moses, is used to balance things, equitable actions or what is right. And so in Genesis chapter 28:18. Sorry, you have that word. Genesis 18 about Abraham. Abraham. Genesis 18:19. I know him. He will command his children and household after him, and he shall keep the way of the Lord to do justice and judgment. To do justice and judgment. And then he repeats Genesis 18, Verse. 25, Shall not the judge of the right or the earth do right justice? So therefore, It means that we need to have better narratives for scriptural words than just use punchlines.