Ezra 5:12 Jeremiah 22:25 I will give thee into the hand of them that seek thy life, to the hand of them whose face thou fearest, even unto the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, to the hand of The Chaldean, Jeremiah 22:25 Jeremiah 32, 24, 28 and 36. Behold the mounds. They are come unto the city to take it, and the city is given unto the hands of the Chaldeans that fight against it, because of the sword, and of the famine, and of the pestilence. And what thou has spoken is come to pass and behold, thou seest it. Therefore thus heareth the lord. Behold, I will give this city to the hand of the Chaldeans, and unto the hand of the Melchizeder, the king of Babylon, and he shall take it.

And now therefore, thus saith the Lord, the God of Israel, concerning this city, whereof you say it shall be delivered to the hand of the king of Babylon, by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence, Jeremiah 32, 24, 28 and 36 Jeremiah 38:18 but thou shalt will not go forth to the king of Babylon's priesthood. Then shall this city be given to the hand of Chaldeans, and they shall burn with fire, and thou shalt not escape out of thy hand. So what we have seen is I am no longer part of it. So the permissive verb is from God's absence, not his action. But because his absence is deemed an action, it is used in an active verb even though it is permissive in qualification. So when God when they write that God will send enemies, and so forth.

Jeremiah 24:10 Jeremiah 29, 17 Ezra 5:16, 17 Ezra 14:13 and 21Amos 8:11 the sending is not his action, the not doing anything is he sending. It's a permissive verb and not causative. Again, we revert to Job, we Revert to Genesis 2 and 3. Let's see another place where the word Shalak it has a lot of mentions. Over 800 uses over 800 usages. 2Nd Kings 17 if you know what this has been used for or used for by prophets of this day and age. 2Nd Kings 17. 25 It was at the beginning of their dwelling there that they feared not the Lord. Therefore the LORD sent lions among them, which slew some of them. He sent lions. The word there simply means he couldn't stop the lions.

So shalak means to let go, not to be able to hold on any longer in 1st Kings 13:26 1st Kings 13:26 and when the prophet had brought him back from the way, he said, it is the man of God who was disobedient unto the word of the Lord. Therefore the LORD had delivered him unto the lion, which hath turned him and slain him, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake unto him. The word here is Nathan, which means the LORD just watched it. Not because he's wicked, it's because there's nothing he could have done. Like we said, the phrases obey, believe, follow. The Old Testament already removes the aspect of God's sovereign control, as people think, from the events of the day. So it means that I wouldn't want to say God removed his protection.

I would say he was not allowed to protect them. Genesis 14:20 could just read this up. Numbers 21:34 Deuteronomy chapter 2 verse 33 Deuteronomy chapter 3, verse 3 Judges 3:10 Judges 3:28 Judges 4:14 Judges 6:13 Judges 7:9 Judges 8:3 Judges 16:24 1st Chronicles 5:20 2nd Chronicles 18:14 2nd Chronicles 28:5 Jeremiah 32:4 Jeremiah 37:17 Ezekiel 31:11 Shalak, therefore, as used in 2nd Kings 17:25 and Nathan in 1 Kings 13:26 just are used in their synonyms interchangeably used for what God did not cause. Rather, what happened when God was not obeyed in 1 Kings 13:9 Eat no bread, nor drink water, nor turn again by the same way that you came. He knew the danger. He warned the prophet, but the prophet did not listen. Rather, in 1 Kings 13:15 22 he listened to the lie of another prophet. You will always see disobedience.

So if I am not responsible for somebody who falls into a trap I didn't set, but I warned him about, then God's instructions must not be seen as God's actions, or instructions against should not be seen as God's actions. So in 2nd Kings 17:25 it is always in the permissive tense. Ezekiel 34, 25 and 28 I will make with them a covenant of peace. I will cause the evil beasts to cease out of their land, and they shall dwell safely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods, and they shall no more be a prey to the evening. Verse 28 Neither shall the beast of the land devour them, but it shall dwell safely, and none shall make them afraid. He gives them a promise of protection. Then you also read Psalm 91, verse 9.

You know we all know that verse where it talks about his protection. So lions were not sent by God. Lions came because God could not protect them. So therefore we do have an utmost duty to look at those two words, Shalach and Nathan. The third one we'll see it on Thursday. The two words that are idiomatic in expression and how do we figure out idioms? Read the whole story. Where did it happen? For example, if somebody says that Peter went into the mouth of the lion or sorry the whale or the fish to fetch for coin, where did it happen? He said there was nowhere. How then do you think it is literal? He said well, if Jesus can say means it happened, it's not so. Jesus said a couple of things that were figurative in expression.

In fact, at some point when he says destroy the temple again they thought the lie they gave him and said he would destroy the temple. So the two words Shalach and Nathan, very overwhelming in the actions of the Old Testament must be placed within the I didn't say that. Everywhere you see Shalak and Nita it means nothing was done. That means it also has a multi purpose usage. It can be used as an idiom. I can use cup to drink water, I can use cup as grammar. If I say the cup of suffering is too much, it doesn't mean you are going to see a glass cup. It just means that I use cup an expression.

So Shalach and Nathan are two words that are used in the Hebrew that should be well monitored so that where we detect disobedience, it means God was not there. God was not there. So it is therefore our duty to present it in his proper light. Let's go Back to Luke 24 and we close. So therefore Bible interpretation includes matching the grammar with the context and the content of the words. O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? You know that when he says suffer these things, it is strange to now see that God, who is the Messiah, you know, how can God the Messiah, the Christ be the one to suffer?

I thought the Messiah would be the one to come and execute one sovereign power. It shows, therefore, that when Jesus was explaining on the road to Emmaus, the explanation of idioms was present. A Messiah's suffering looks like a contrast to the world. It again shows that even the use of Messiah in the Old Testament deliverer in the Old Testament has a grammar to it. So this job has to be done, and properly so. So we'll see again on Thursday.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/