Okay, I Know, I saw a land, I promised a house, and I gave you a land document that can make it possible to sell and. Or can comfortably replace the house, sorry, the car. In value, in assets, in worth, and much more. Now look at the challenge of the translator. Our culture doesn't have things like that. So what is the nearest you will use? Down payment. Meanwhile, some versions just say guarantee. Guarantee. So it is your job as a Bible teacher to explain the kind of guarantee you are saying. So unlike what we ended up that day, concluding Nytea all that, it is a down payment of more to come. Because that down payment is the spirit himself. Which means, if I am promising you that this body will be glorified, I will give you the proof.

The proof is the spirit that will glorify the body. That cannot be a down payment, even though that is what it might represent in today's world. But because in today's world, we don't have such practices, it may just be the nearest word to use. Let me see how you can understand what I'm talking about. Do you get it? So you therefore must sit back to explain it. Okay, look at it. Tam, you know that Numa is from Ruark. Of course, Ruach deals more with the breath of someone's nostrils. Nostrils. That's the Hebrew that not does with wind. Till tomorrow, people don't know when he says spirit, you are saying wind. So the New Testament translators tried to alter it a bit. Holy spirit. Then they use ghost, you know, and all that. But whether it's ghost or spirit, it is pneuma.

Pneuma simply means wind. So even the use. Okay, what would you use in your language to explain an unseen person? Rather than call the person an idol or a demon, you will just look for something in nature. So till tomorrow we have learned a word, so you must explain it again. The word wind simply means to the naked eyes. It has nothing to do with the is not envy. Is not. It just means the naked eyes can't see it. So the idiom of scripture will let us see that words that seemingly look active are passive. So it doesn't mean that the thing has been done by the person. Therefore, in translating, you must not retain idioms. Your job is to put the idiom in a proper usage.

I meant to say, your job as a teacher of scripture is to put the idiom in today's world, unbundle the words, ensure that exactly what happened is what you are saying. For example, when I say X, when I say, for example, look at the. Look at. Look at The Yoruba word oje egba. If I say ojegba, I know you wouldn't think that the person is eating the horsewhip. You get my point. You simply meant he has experienced flogging. So if he says now, interpret it literally, he ate the cane or he chopped the cane. So we. We have that duty of ensuring that we don't preach it as an idiom. Preach an idiom to ex. To an audience that is not familiar with that culture. Preach the explanation.

So the Near Eastern idiom of speech idiom in their figures of speech will make it important that we read the stories behind statements. The language is that God permits things to take place. That is, it means that God gives power, opportunity and a will to his creatures. 2. He foretells the end. So now do you know that? Another thing is to say that something I learned from the Word of Faith movement, of which I am a conch subscriber. Okay. God is not in control of everything. I found that statement very, very suspect. Even though it is correct to say he's not in control, but his knowledge shows he is. His knowledge of the consequences of actions and inactions shows he is.

The fact that he can tell you what you have done and the result of it shows he is, but is not in control as one who carries out that consequence. So, 1. God is used in those permissive tenses to show one he has given man a will. 2 That he can comfortably, creditably, assertively tell you the consequence of what you have done. It means that he doesn't influence everything. As we have seen, his work is persuasive. It means that he withdraws when we do. Jesus in his earthly work showed it in action. So therefore, if God cannot be tempted with evil, like James will say, neither tempt any man. It shows that a man can do things without God. This is a very core part.

If man can sin without God, which even those who try to be a perseverance agree with, then man can do things without God. I've said it before that the most powerful agency on earth is the human will. We are yet to see the import of it. That's why you see God's lamentations all through Scriptures and even in the four Gospels is lamenting how man has used that will wrongly. Man is never called to be independent. He's called to depend, is called to believe. Genesis 1. So Genesis 2:1, 3 is called to be in God's seventh day. The moment we neglect these idioms, it leads us to grievous errors of transition. Let me tell you again what I said on Saturday. A Bible teacher is a translator of Scripture. He mustn't at any time think that his job is different from a translator.

So when you leave words in their idiomatic mode for an audience that doesn't have that culture, you will rob them of the meaning of what he said. So our job now is to reconcile the language of that day with the language of today, not to leave statements in their idiomatic expressions, rather to ensure that the way they live then in Israel, we understand it, and with the context of the words used, we bring it today's world. A man said this by the name of Murray. He said, our translators have not only made mistakes in what affects men, but in what should honor God in making him the author of sin in wicked men that he might find occasion to destroy them. So this is a crucial element in how we read the Old Testament. I'm going to repeat myself.

Religions have come out of it, denominations have come out of it, practices, even appetite. I said that earlier colonization of other nations have come out of it. So we must make this distinction. There are many theological circles that everything they teach is based on living these words the way they are and interpreting them literally. What they teach shows that God is merely being God by controlling the men, the narratives, and what they do. We must therefore not see what God permits in the tenses and the words used by man as the things that he has done. We must be careful. We must ensure that even when what we are quoting is not what we are teaching, we must go back there to inform our audience. This is what it means.

If it will take us three weeks to explain two texts that have nothing to do with our subject matter, so be it. Because what we are saying is a damage that has been done for thousands of years. It mustn't be handled at all with kid gloves. So the issue of tenses are critical. Let's go Back to John 20:22 and 23. He breathed on and said, receive ye the Holy Ghost. Whosoever sins you remit are remitted unto them. Whosoever sins you retain are retained unto them. Now. The truth is that is idiomatic. They never remitted sins, neither did they retain sins. So faith in the Gospel receives remission of sins, unbelief, retention of sins. But did you notice that statement did not put the active tenses in the audience, rather with the preacher?

So John 20:22, 23 is yet another template where we see these words Used in fact, look at Jude, Jude5. I put you in remembrance. How you once knew, though you once knew, that how the Lord having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterwards destroyed them that believe not. Now, of course, I suggest that this is actually Scientax. It ought to have been them that believe not were destroyed because it shows that the Lord did not save them. That's all. Why did not save them? Because they believed not. Hence the word believed not. But yet again, the translators, which I think this is our deliberate left it that way. Look at First Peter. Second Peter. Sorry, second Peter 2, verse 4.

God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them to the chains of darkness, to the resolution of judgment. Spared not the old world, but saved Noah. Look at that. Saved Noah, the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in flood upon the world of the ungodly and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example unto those that afterwards should live godly. He says, delivered just lot. So you see, he delivered by showing you he delivered. It means is the things he did not do that they idioms were used for. Do you understand what I'm saying? Every time you see God mentioned as delivering some, then destroying some, one of them is not active. And in all the instances the destruction is not his activity.

2Nd Thessalonians 1, Where the Greek is even better. Verse 9. Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. He says they are those that obey not the Gospel from you have the word Apoll. It can be used directly from or away from. This is obviously away from. So the Hebrew idiom, which has also found its way into Greek words. I mean, Greek translation of scripture must not be allowed to be interpreted literally. It must be taught strictly as an idiom. Let's look at certain things that were written that way. 2Nd Samuel 12. 11. Thus saith the Lord. Imagine reading this. I mean, that's why I said that even in explaining redemption to your son, your daughter or children, you have to be careful.

The narrative of we have seen, rather than us dying, God now chose his son. And your daughter should ask your son, daddy, can you do that for me? I say, well, I can't. You know, that's God because he's God. So you see? So God's not a good daddy. He said, well, he's a good daddy. But his son agreed. His son agreed to be killed that way. You know it all looks funny. Look at verse 11. This is Nathan speaking to David. Let's start from 10. Because you have distracted me, because you have taken the wife who rare the eater to be thy wife, I will raise up evil. Verse 11 against thee out of thy house. And I will take thy wives before thine eyes and give them to your neighbor and they shall lie with thy wife in the sight of this son.

Have you read this before? It doesn't look good. How did this happen? Chapter 16, verse 21 to 22. Always you see, every time you read those things, always look at when it happened. So you have a duty. If you see something Jeremiah prophesied I happened in the time of Ezekiel, go and look at when it happened. The idiom will be clear to you. 2Nd Samuel 16 again, 21. Ayatofeld said unto Abhalum, go into thy father's concubines which are left to keep the house. And all Israel shall hear that thou art aboard of their father. Then thou shalt the hands of all that are we strong. And look at verse 2. They spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house. And Absalom went into his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel. So this is how it happened.

It was Absalom who eventually was killed. Let me read what John Calvin said. John Calvin is the Father in law. Father in law in the Lord of Calvinists. He said the incest of Absalom was the work of God. Yep, that's what he said. Let me say a few things that he said in the original. In the original, this expression do not denote any positive actions on the part of God, as if he prompted wicked men to do these things, which is threatening David. This will indeed be to make God the author of evil. It meant that as a punishment to David, God will withhold his restraint from David's enemies because he advanced God's laws. So basically, what ought to have been seen there is because of what you have done, I become helpless.

And so this is what will happen, stating the cause of what he had done. But rather people intervene. Literally, God will actually be the one to go and look for a rapist to come and carry it out. No, without God saying anything, people do these things. God need not to say people will do evil. So his judgment calls are love calls. So what we can say basically is God foresaw what will happen in the house of David. So the idiom there is permissive, not causative. So I Will raise up. Evil in the Hebrew idiom simply means evil will come up. I can see it. And what we are going to see are a consequence of many actions. We see the rebellion of Absalom, defilement of his daughter by his brother, that is David.