So the question that you'll be asked, and this will be thrown at you is, are holy wars not justified when you read the Scriptures? But the question is, does theology of the Bible justify wars? Now the sizzling line. Does theology of the Bible include wars? Yes. Does it justify? No. Does theology of the Bible include the cross? Yes. Does it justify unjust punishment? No. Does theology of the Bible include Jesus being betrayed? No. But does theology of the Bible include betrayal? It does. Does it work together for good? Yes. So it therefore becomes dishonest to misuse. Also not to agree. Sorry for that. That there could be a misuse of the text of scripture to justify warfare, physically speaking.

Did you also observe, and this is important to note, that Israel after Joshua did not use the Joshua pattern to justify attacking non Canaanites people? The Canaanites were not the only ones in the world. They were in a geographical location. There were other people all over the world and Israel didn't have any business with them. It shows in history that Israel never sought to engage non Canaanites to destruction. We said that before. Saul does not seek to do the same to Philistines and David does not do the same thing to people around him. That is Saul disobedience Saul. So only Canaan stood out in the justified wars. And we've looked at why it was so. It's typical of today if we talk about the Boko Haram war in Nigeria, for example, ISIS in Iraq, Eswar Pen, maybe Iran, Saudi Arabia there, Hezbollah and Afghanistan.

There are a lot of things in this world today that can easily explain that to you. But where you take it beyond that and you start to wage war elsewhere, that's no longer justified. Was war justified in their world? Yes. Was war God efficient means? No. Was it what was available? Yes. Did he do it? No. Was he in it? Yes. Was it sufficient for him? Yes. Was it efficient? No. Till Jesus came. Hope I'm making sense. So therefore it is also vital in your submission to note that in the overall redemptive plan of God, the Canaanites who appear to look like rebels, arch enemies, were involved in it. And also note that the Israelites, who should have been Seen as the people of God were found as the enemies if the cross of Jesus and what happened to him?

Jesus didn't die in Rome, he died in Israel. He didn't die old in the hands of Pilate, he died in the hands of Israel. Now this a bit subtle because I want to be careful now I say this because this is one of the reasons why Hitler killed the Jews. So you can twist scriptures and call cause a genocide. In Zechariah, chapter 9, the Canaanites were louder. I see that as in God's ultimate plan of salvation. Zechariah, chapter 9. Talking about the work of the Messiah. I'll just read a few. He says the burden of the word of the Lord, Nehemiah, Adrach and map Damascus and the rest.

When eyes of man, as of the tribes of Israel towards the Lord, Amath also shall border thereby Tyrus Zidon, though it be very wise, Tyrus did build herself up a strong gold and heaped up silver as the dust and fine gold as a m of the street. Behold, the Lord will cast her out and smite her. Power in the sea shall be devoured with fire. Ascalon will see it, and fair Giza will see it. And be very sorrowful. Ekron for expectation shall be ashamed and the king shall perish from the Gaza, and Askelon shall not be inhabited. Follow. So of course you have Ekron, which is a city in Philistines and also like Jebus. Let's see, verse six. He says, and the bastard shall do an Ashur and cut off the pride of the Philistines.

I'll take away his blood out of his mouth and his abominations from between his teeth. And he remain, but he that remains even he shall be for our God, and it shall be as a governor in Judah, and Ikron as a Jebusite. Look at that seven. That means there will be a remnant out of the Canaanites. And in Deuteronomy, chapter 7, verse 1, Where he says, when the Lord thy God shall bring thee to the land, whither thou goest to possess the thou shalt cast many nations before the Hittites, the Gishethites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Priest, the Evilites, the Jebusites. Seven nations greater and mightier than thou. We've explained that already. So it means eventually these nations will be absolved, taken in and accepted in the commonwealth of promise. I want you to understand why Paul wrote the letters to the Gentiles.

It's not just the creation of his head is revelation of Scripture. Just like Israel will have a remnant, the Gentiles or the Canaanites in this instance will have a remnant. First Chronicles 21 and verse 15. Look. And God sent angel into Joseph to destroy it. And when he was destroyed, the Lord said, he repented of him the evil that the angel that destroyed Zim not stay thine hand. And the angel stood by the threshold of the honor unto jebusite. Verse 15. Look at verse 18. The angel of the Lord commanded Gad to say to David that they should go up and set up an altar of the Lord. The treasure floor of Onan the Jebusite. Look at verse 28. At that time, when David saw that the Lord had answered him in the treasure floor of Onan the Jebusite, then they sacrificed.

Therefore, that means eventually you see them involved in the worship of God. Again in Psalm 87, Gentile salvation is prophesied by almost all the prophets, and the judgment to the Israelites is equally prophesied. So God is not an ethnic king. No, he's only used a sufficient, though inefficient, efficient vessel to bring in his Messiah. And that's called Israel. Look at verse one. His foundation is in the holy mountains. The Lord loves the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob. Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God. Seder. I will make mention of Rahab. Pay attention, Babylon to them that know me. Philistia, Tyre, Ethiopia. This man was born of thee, and of Zion shall be said this and that man was born in her and he hires himself shall establish her. Look at verse 6.

The Lord shall count when he writes up the people. And this man was born there. This is Gentile salvation. So the Canaanites are found in here. Egypt is found, Babylon is found. Philistines are also found. Let me read a version to us the niv. I will record Rahab, Egypt and Babylon among those who were acknowledgement Philistia too. Ty along with the Cush Utopia. And I will say, this one was born in Zion indeed of Zion to be said this one and that one were born in her, and the Most High himself will establish her. The Lord will write in the register of the peoples, this one was born in Zion. Isaiah 19, Isaiah 19:23.

It says, in that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrians shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptians into Assyria, and Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians. And in that day Israel shall be deterred with Egypt, and the Assyrians with The blessing in the midst of the land, whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, blessed be Egypt. Wow, my people, Assyria, the works of my hand, Israel, my inheritance. These are the realities where in the Old Testament. So Gentile salvation is not a creation of Paul. Hope you are listening. Therefore, in Matthew 15:22, that conversation that Jesus had with the Syrophoenician woman, she had faith. Paul writes about, as it were, new Israel. In Ephesians 3:1, 11 he states it clearly, the Jew and the Gentile will be found in one nation.

Remember that conversation, Acts 15, when they paid about what should the Gentiles do after salvation? And James says, hey, God has chosen these people to call them out, to make a residue, you know, these nations, he has granted to them salvation. He wasn't speaking from his head, he was speaking from Isaiah. He was speaking from Isaiah 20. Is it Isaiah 20:19? He was speaking from. From Psalm 87. He was speaking from all the texts we have read so far. So therefore, and vitally speaking, if God said love your neighbor as yourself, he has done that in Jesus towards the Gentiles. But love is not imposed on anyone. Love can be refused. But God is yet in control because in his judgment the man who is self destruct will have what he wants.

So in reading the Old Testament, it becomes unfair to seek that there was just an outright destruction of a nation. We've explained the reasons for the war already. But then was there any bias for and against any nation? We have seen that's not possible. Jesus mentions this woman in Matthew 15:22 as a woman of thy and Sidon. Read that already. So a few questions we are going to also be able to answer at this moment is that all Israel's wars were for a short time, a limited time in Israel's history, again to a certain small geographical location, that's the second thing, to a specific set of people and number four. And critically, war was a part of the Near Eastern tradition of their day. So what God will do will to restrict them even in their inefficiencies.

God will put limits even though in the world they were in. And we said that historically speaking that there was no limit in warfare, but Israel had limits. That's what God could do. And those limits were exercised by divine revelation using the prophet. So if there was an instance of judgment against a nation from Israel, maybe because of an offensive war by another nation, the prophets and the prophets will guide them the best way possible, even as he keeps their view in the coming kingdom of Jesus whilst they carry out human kingdom. So therefore we have already sorted out the issue of all were destroyed and said no, it never usually included women and children and those who were not in combat. So once again we repeat some things we have said.

The issue of driving out destroying everything is a language of their day. And also the wars were with combatants, militants, military men, and not with non combatants. Once again, with no doubt and every honest historian will accept that war was a part of human civilization of that day. It's like today, nations defend nations using the art of war. And that day was like that. Therefore, in the near east tradition, warfare was a way of life. It was not just that, it was a means of survival. That's the only way you can survive. So fighting didn't look the way we see it today. Now for us we say, wow, they did all of that. That was great. That was what they had. Whereas in their own day, both combatants, military people and not military people, were usually extinguishing war.

The difference in Israel was they were able to have limits. And don't forget, Jesus classified them in Matthew 19, 7 and 8 as having hardness of heart, sclerocardian hardness of heart. Moses, in view of the hardness of the heart, pro sclerocardian and 3%, he allowed them to do such and such. Write this down. Moses will therefore, just like he should, will use failed, inappropriate, inefficient human methods and means to achieve a divine agenda. God wants everyone to worship him in love. What will happen? Israel will go to a nation with a peace entreaty. If you worship Jehovah, you will be left. If you fight them, they'll fight back. They preserve those who are non combatant. Those who went to idol worship extinguished. Did God institute that note that was already existing? Did God use it just like the cross? He did.

So if it's therefore a culture, that means that the Jews had a reformed culture of a prevalent attitude of war. This leads us to some critical elements. Like I said, you engage people every day and they want you to answer questions. Don't run to the four gospels and present, like I said, a firefighting Jesus who only came to say, I know we're wrong, we're sorry. You must be able, as a Bible teacher, just like Bible does, just like Paul does, to show Jesus as the one they looked up to. If truly they hoped on him, then it becomes dishonest to classify him as them. But it also does not become efficient if you separate them from him, you must relate them very well. He must be seen as the savior of all the heroes of the Old Testament.

It must be seen as bringing a new culture and then introducing a new creation. Then God's wisdom must equally be seen prevailing and traversing in spite of the wisdom of men. So therefore the Bible presents a bigger picture. You must see that picture from Genesis chapter one. And Moses is very clear in the way he presents it. Moses situates the first murder as man. He doesn't hide it in his narrative. Moses is not justifying in wholesale what was justifying in his world. It shows God as speaking with Cain. Why would you do this? Be your brother's keeper. That is the fourth chapter of Moses writings. It lets us know that death isn't from God. So Moses accepts in his writings the non perfect methods of his day and he points to a man that will come after him.