He will use the soldiers, he will use the chief priests, he will use the Pharisees, you know, it's not that he puts his spirit upon them, but he allows them come up with their best. Then he makes it as sufficient as possible. Then he very eventually he ends up with what is efficient. So which means that, you know, we. I said to us that this is the end point. I did this on Monday for you. Don't forget. That's the illustration I gave you. This is the end point. The process is never going to be efficient, but the means that it gets to. Sorry, the end point is going to be an efficient one. And that's Jesus, you know, the son of God. The Genesis 126, 28, man.

So which means that if that is clear to us, pay attention here, the writing of this story, the process will come through sufficient, but not efficient means, men. So Jesus therefore will be endorsing men's writings, men's prophecy, if you allow me, use that without putting a seal on everything they have done. Yet the end point of whatever they have done, he puts his seal on it. I meant to say that when he said to them in Luke 24:25 and said, oh, fools. And slow of heart, Bradus, slow of heart, Bradus, cardiac, slow of heart. To believe all that the prophets have spoken. Look at the prophets. So the prophets will be sufficient for God. But can you call them efficient? No. So it becomes dishonest and unfair for us to start to classify God, you know, within the means of what was only available.

And so he says, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? That is, by the time you read the story of the Bible, well, then the sufferings of Christ was automatic. Then he says, beginning at Moses. Now that's a character that has just about enough moral failings. But he doesn't fail in his faithfulness to God's promise. And that is the end. Okay, so he fails morally. He is not the perfect vessel, but what he points to and what he believes is efficient enough, even though as a vessel he is not. He's a killer. Call him any name. He's angry, he's this, he's that. You know, he will. We said on Monday he's going to talk about God. And he will use the language of idol worship. He will use the shrine, the temple.

Temple, the nahos and the aerials in the Greek. He will use the tabernacle. He will use the things that he met in Egypt where they were worshipping idols. Look at what I mean. Idol worship is evil. Idol worship is to twist the will of God. But God used this for his glory when Moses used the same symbolisms to explain what God would do efficiently in Christ Jesus. So therefore we will walk through the Old Testament landmines carefully to make a proper distinction. We have to keep our eyes on the ball to say where are we going? Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? It's therefore necessary. When you look at the process, then in 44 these are the words Luke 24, which I said to you while I was yet with you, that all things must fulfilled.

Then he mentions two people again. The law of Moses, the Psalms of David and then the prophets. There is another guy you are going to see who is not the efficient vessel or tool or storyteller, but sufficient enough. He is another killer, another you know, call him any other name you like. But the truth is that is sufficient for God. So when he is called all sufficient one, which is the Shaddai, he basically is basically to say, look, I'll make do with it. He says to Abraham, I am the almighty God, walk before me, you'll be perfect. That gives you the idea what I just said. I know you are not efficient, but I will make it sufficient enough in your weaknesses. I will display my strength. And this is the concept of grace, that is if we understand it well.

This is the concept of the grace of God, where he takes whatever is available, even if it's nothing and he makes something out of it. And this explains why we only believe to be saved. So therefore the methods will be variables. Hebrews 11, Hebrews 11 sundry times, diverse manners. Because it is always going to be non efficient method for it to be sufficient enough in the way it goes. Luke 24:45 Then he opened ye their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. Da Nogiyo, so near me, knows they might understand the scriptures. Then he says to them in 47 this has to be preached. Repentance and remission of sins will be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, for example. People have asked me a question. They said this is there's a worldwide phenomenon of the virus at this moment.

That's why we are here now. And is God saying anything? Well, the truth is God always finds what to do even with what is evil. He doesn't have to commission you to use it. That's just a fact we have come to know. It doesn't have to. I mean it doesn't have to Behind something before it becomes sufficient for him to do, to use it. So we must separate what he does from what he is available unto him. What's available to God are sinners. What's available to God are imperfect vessels. So the process will keep being imperfect till we get to the perfect man, Jesus himself. So therefore everything became set, the need for a Messiah when all the inefficient yet sufficient vessels had gotten to their wit, end from call it Abel to Zechariah, maybe Malachi by writing, or from Genesis to Malachi.

And then there's another period of exile, there's another period of tyranny. There's bondage, as it were. There's a taxation by the Roman government. The temple is back, okay? The worship is back. In that sense, the priesthood in one way or the other is back. Therefore, the stage is set to expect again. Galatians 4:4 says, at the fullness of time. We saw that on Monday, at the fullness of time, God sent his Son. And Paul plays on words there. He says, under the law. The law he said, was the schoolmaster earlier on. The law he said was to bring or to get to Christ. The law that he had already presupposed, that was added because of transgression. He said, yes. Yet the fullness of time, God sent his Son under the same law. That gets you thinking.

Added because of transgressions, added because of sins, yet that was sufficient enough for God to use. And so it becomes very unfortunate if anybody begins to judge an all sufficient God, all wise God, all gracious God, based on the fact that what was available unto him were inefficient yet sufficient tools. Let me share it. If you understand what we're talking about, this must be done. And towards the end of this particular series, we're going to look at the character theology, because we need to look at theology in the character of the persons that use. But this is just to set the background for all of us to see. So the characters therefore become vital. There is no character, not Moses, not David, that doesn't have war or bloodshed. But the question you should ask was it peculiar to them? We found out.

No, it wasn't. Was it just. No, it wasn't. It was peculiar to fallen man. So here is God. He will not be a warmonger. That is already seen in Jesus. He will not be the one to initiate or instigate a fight. He won't do it. But if you start one, that's what he has to use. And so we must therefore cross the barrier. Was God involved in the conquest? How would he be involved? If he didn't start it, then. Then if he can't be involved at all in the conquest, then it means he can't. He couldn't have been involved at all. Human history if everything has to be perfect for God to be involved, there will have been no incarnation. Get that right. So can we totally divorce God from all the wars and bloodshed? That is the question we have to answer.

And be careful about it. To take him totally out of the picture will be to tell half the truth. That will mean. So if God. If God. If God is totally out of the history of man, sin's imperfection, then how did Jesus come? How did he come? Did he come through God? No, he came through man. Did he come through prophets? He came through the scenario that set sinners as God's vehicle to save sin, to save from sin. So therefore the. We must therefore not take away the context of the characters that were involved. The characters have to be. Romans 5:12. Through one man, sin entered into the world. Think about it. The world he refers to will be Adam to Moses. And death by sin it passed upon all, even those who had not sinned after the simultaneous of Adam's transgression. Romans 5:14.

And he says, though sin was in the world, wasn't deputed because there was no law. Having said that, Hebrews 11 therefore sets the background the substance of things. O4 the evidence of things not seen. Hu. Potasis. We said that. L. Pizobliopathy. Then again he says the evidence. Electron. Then he says of things. I didn't mention that earlier on Pragmaton. Not seen. So that means there are a lot of things that were seen by the actors of the Old Testament that you are not going to see except in their words. You are going to see an ark. You are going to see a disappearance of Enoch. You are going to see a child. Children by Abraham. And the miracle is that he wasn't meant to have a child, neither his wife. Then a miracle shows up.

But that's not what you're supposed to see, even though that's what you see. You are going to see him talk about the stars. You're going to see him in the tabernacles, even though that's not what we're talking about. You're going to see, you know, different scenarios. That is not the story itself. Yet they play a part to the story. So Hebrews 11:4 from verse three, who frame their walls by the Word of God through to verse 39 will be inefficient means of carrying out a sufficient or inefficient means of carrying out maybe of a journey that goes to an efficient end. But through sufficient means. Then that means one. The sacrifice of whatever Abel did was not sufficient, was not efficient, though it was sufficient. The ark of Noah was not efficient, though it was sufficient. Enoch's translation was not sufficient. So sorry.

Efficient though it was sufficient. Isaac was not efficient, though he was sufficient. Sarah, all the actors, Joseph, up till we got to Egypt. And so the stage is already set and Egypt presents a defensive war. They leave Egypt out of bondage. That remains the background. Moses and then the Red sea. In verse 28, the writer says, through faith he kept the Passover and a sprinkling of blood. Was that efficient. Nobody was sufficient. Because if you have read this book already, it says all these things. Things were just a shadow, scare. Hebrews 8 and 5. They were two poles. They were a type. They are not the reality. Hebrews 10 and 1. A shadow of the very things, the good things to come. So the shadow which is the scare is not efficient, but it is sufficient.

So he says here that lest they be destroyed by the destroyer who destroys the firstborn, he uses the Greek word olothreo o l o T H R E U o. It means to cause, to perish. Which means right from that scenario you see that it was an escape. The word that you're going to find in other places. Precisely. First Corinthians 5, 5. The brother in Corinthians. Corinth. First Corinthians 5. So first Thessalonians 5, 3, destruction to the world. Second Thessalonians 1:9. The same thing, first Timothy 6, 9, about the love of money. Now pay attention to what I'm about to say. That word olothorio in the New Testament is used for the destruction of the flesh. So that means the flesh is in view. Where you discourse the Exodus, that word equally has, you know, that's olotheos. Sorry.

O l E T H R O S. That's the verb of it. Then you have the paschal, the passover, a feast that is written about 29 times. 26 Times in the four Gospels, or 4 times outside it. Acts 12 and 4 feasts. First Corinthians 5, 7. It says Christ is a Passover. I meant 27 times. 26 Times, of course, before the Epistles and the book of acts. Then Hebrews 11, 8, First Corinthians 5:7 says the Passover Christ is sacrificed for us. That's a bit different. I thought the Pascal was animal. He says that is not self efficient. It is sufficient because that is what was available in Egypt. They were killing animals. Go, God wasn't going to do that. Man was going to kill God or kill God's man.