Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we thank you again this morning for this time to fellowship and to hear your word. Thank you that you grant us wisdom and insight as we study further the subjects we began yesterday. Thank you for the enlightenment. Together as a church, as a congregation, we behold Jesus Christ, your son, as he sees us in him, he is glorified and we are edified. Amen. Amen. All right, So just kick off from yesterday. Luke 24, Luke's gospel 24. 25 And he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself.

And we said yesterday that this is not a pattern that Jesus began suddenly. It's a pattern we can readily discover in the Old Testament books. Of course, our colloquial use of Old Testament is based on the documents we have. We restrict ourselves to documents at this point. But we know that in the study of Scriptures, the reference of Old and new has nothing to do with books. Within the Old Testament we'll find the New Testament. Within the New Testament, we find the Old Testament books. I've already explained the concept of Old and New Testament to us. But because of what we have, for example, we call it the Bible, and yet the Bible doesn't call itself Bible. So but for the sake of information and communication, we use the word Old and New Testament.

It's good to make some of those clarifications so we are not caught being unmindful. So the pattern of having to go through the Scriptures and teaching, where you bring understanding to your hearers, was new. But we would yet plow a bit more then neymar8 and you see that the apostolic pattern followed that order. Before we go to Nehemiah, look at Acts 28 and Verse 23. And when they had appointed him a day, that's Paul. Now, when he was in a lodging, was still going for trial, there came many unto him in his lodging, to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses, out of the prophets, from morning till evening. And this he was doing, you know, for two years, verse 30.

So you can imagine morning till evening, and he just had 39 books. He didn't have the entire 66 and morning till evening. And so that pattern is not a new pattern. Like we said yesterday, the Bible school Terrain that we have today was the local church of the early church. But maybe use that word now. Look at Nehemiah chapter 8. Nehemiah, chapter 8, where Ezra is described here. Maybe we'll read verse 1. And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate. And they spake unto Ezra the scribe, to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the Lord had commanded to Israel. So Ezra was supposed to bring the book of the law. Then he stood on the pulpit. Verse four, he opened the book, verse five.

There was a lot of reverence to the teaching ministry. Then verse seven, he caused people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. And verse 8. And so they read in the book, in the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. So there was an interpretation going on which is critical to the mode of understanding. Let me say this because yesterday it was clear the need for grammar. Okay, maybe I should. I'll pause. Now. Look at Exodus 18, because that pattern must have come from Exodus. I mean from the, the. The five books of Moses. Before we get there too, I want us to look at. Deuteronomy 11. Don't forget the Exodus. Instruction is verse 18.

Therefore shall you lay up these words in your heart and in your soul, and bind them for a sign upon your hand that they may be as faultless before your eyes. Look at 19. You shall teach them, your children, speaking of them, when thou sit in thy house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up, and thou shalt write them upon the doorposts of thine house and. And upon their gates. So it's discipleship is what you can glean from that. It was a culture to consistently be teaching. And that's how these things were passed across two generations. We said it was primarily via oral tradition. Don't forget that crucial aspect now.

Now go to Exodus 18, a story we probably all know very well, where Jethro, the brother in law of Moses, came to him, and he met him in what we have today. Because you see that the local church, what we're doing today is patterned after what Moses did with children of Israel in the wilderness. And he also patterned it after the tradition of the Father. So there was nothing that was innovative. Now in Exodus 18, when Jethro came. Look at verse 12. I want you to just observe something. This is just an observation. And Jethro, Moses, father in law, took a burnt offering and Sacrifice for God. And Aaron came. And of course, this already presupposes a Gentile. When I say Gentile, non Jew, non Israel, salvation and all the elders of Israel to eat bread with Moses, father in law before God.

Now, I think I mentioned yesterday the concept of to eat. I think, I mean, to eat bread here doesn't mean that they actually took a loaf of bread. It just means that they shared fellowship. I think mentioned that the other day, the place of fellowship. Those are terms that we should be accustomed to. It doesn't mean that they. Somebody went to the kitchen to prepare food. And all of that just means that they had fellowship. Then he says here, then it came to pass on the moral verse 13, that Moses had to judge the people, and the people stood by Moses from morning till evening. I mean, we say something similar again. He says, a judge. And the word judge in 13 is the word Shaphat. You see, in Genesis 16, 5, it has to do with what you can call discernment. Discernment, yeah.

Night and day we're able to discern. Now, listen, at this point, we don't have a record of a written material or maybe Job, contestably, we don't have a record of that. We don't have the Epistles. So definitely. And he was teaching. What's the content of what he's teaching? And then he says that he's teaching from morning to evening. Then verse 16, verse 15 says, When Jethro asked him, what's going on, what are you doing here from morning to evening, he said, because the people come unto me to inquire of God, the word darak, which means to seek. I mean, they sought to know, to ask, okay, what's the word of God? What's the promise of God? What would he have us do? And all of that. Now let's look at the core things. Verse 16.

And when they have a matter, they come unto me, and I judge between one and the other. That is, I am able to judge, you know, what you can call pastoring, basically here. Then he says that how does he do it? I made them know the statutes and his laws. So you see that at this point, there was no written material, but they had statutes and his laws. Statutes and his laws. Instructions. Now, notice the word laws. And it's the word Torah. And Torah is a summation of education. It's where you derive the word doctrine. Doctrine. Torah means doctrine. So if we green on this and we look at John 1:17, and the law came by Moses, that's the Torah, we can say the doctrine came by Moses.

So if we expand that, it will mean and grace, which is the truth, came by Jesus. We can therefore say that the fulfillment of the doctrine was the coming of Jesus. So grace and truth, that's John 1:17. So he says, I thought the written law. We mean that. So he says the statute and his laws. We have the teaching, the instruction derived from another word, yara y a r a h which is also doctrine, or to give direction. I look at verse 20, and thou shalt teach them ordinances. Thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws, and thou shalt show them the way wherein they must walk and the work they must do. Look at the epistles, the same. What did God say? His word. And then what you must do. The word teach.

Here is the word zahar z a h A R used 22 times in the Hebrew language. In the Hebrew Bible. It means to enlighten. It means to shine light. So we find here, now you can see the basis, therefore, of the unbelief in Israel. So when you see unbelief, it's not because you say, we are taking you to a land. And then they go to one place they were not arguing. No, you can see there was exhaustive instruction from the world to have the kind of unbelief that they had. It's not a evangelism of five minutes. And somebody says, well, I don't believe. No, these are people that were. I mean, what he said to them and what he taught them and explained to them is definitely the Book of Genesis. So the book of Genesis, therefore, has the. Is the Torah.

Where you have the doctrine, there is the doctrine of Genesis that has what to believe, what to act upon, what to do, and also what not to do. So the Book of Genesis, therefore, will be a narrative of the doctrine of God. We have characterizations, the grace of God. Every doctrine, therefore, in Scripture is in a germ form in Genesis, every doctrine. You can see this again, what to believe, what to do, what not to do. So he also enlightened them. He also gave them direction, just like Luke 24, 25, 27, just like we mentioned also Nehemiah 8, 7, 8, and just like Acts 28, 22 and 23 Paul 30. So therefore, the teaching ministry is not a bypass. It's not like. Let's just do this quickly. It is actually the core ministry of Scripture.

And you can see that the teaching ministry, unlike how even some of us have generally passed it across, is not a question of just believers. The teaching ministry Is the evangelism that we do. The teaching ministry is any kind of outreach. Anytime you hold the scriptures. Maybe we should add this. Anytime the scriptures are held, they must be taught. You can now see why Paul will say all scripture given by expression of God's profitable force doctrine. This is from the genesis of ministry. If you talk about ministry, you talk about people like, okay, let's look at an example, what we call a prophet. For example, the very first person to be called a prophet in scripture is Abraham. Genesis 27. And we read yesterday, the testimony of Abraham is that he will teach the statutes and the law of God.

So the prophet is a teacher. Now the reason why the prophet made use of revelation and the visions is because much of what he said, because it was promissory, was eschatological. Something that will happen. Now if you are going to do that, you will look at revelation to us today is something that has happened, so we look back. But revelation to them is something that will happen. So it will function in the with the teaching of the Word will come visions and revelation. So the prophet is that teacher, is that person who instructs the word of God. Oh fools and slow of heart to bring all that the prophet hath spoken. Luke 24:25 ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? 26 Beginning at Moses, pay attention here.

And all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the written word the things concerning himself. I said that to say that by saying what they had spoken, he now said what they had written, like second Timothy three, 16 written. So which means that the prophet was that man, or in a wider sense, that woman who brings the word of God to people by teaching and also accompanied with revelations, you know of by the Spirit of God that brings events and facts to the people just to accompany that teaching. Whilst we may not have the detail of every prophet in the sense of because of the brevity of the documentation, we do know by some well explained ministries of the prophet that was a teaching ministry to shine light. So having said that, again, we go back to Luke 24.

Now let's look at our issue. Like I told some of you guys last night, our issue therefore now is to be able to understand the bridge between the Old Testament writings and the Epistles. Now, you know, in Moses's era, let's say Abraham was Hebrew. Again, another expression is on the cross across the sea from the Euphrates and all of that. So the mode of communication is what we call the Ibrahism or, you know, they had their own morphology, use of words, etymology. They had that just like every culture has his own. So while he's teaching his children, he wouldn't need. There's not much of interpretation that will have to take place because in the sense of language, because that's the common language. Now let's cross over to Egypt.