And the baptism was supposed to prefigure the giving of the Holy Spirit, but he didn't stop it. There was baptism. They ate the communion and said, this is my body broken for you. He didn't say it until the very last one. And we can go on and on different things. And he went into the temple where he poured and he called it his father's house. He prefigured something else. And then you say, well, so eventually we might have to look beyond the what and look at the why and the how. Am I making sense? So that would therefore help us to look at the context of their day. Back again to Hebrews 11. Hebrews 11. One has five words that the writer delivered.

Because if you go to 33 without verse one, and may I help you also without chapter 10, 34, 35, 36, not of them that draw back, you know, and all that. Then it says the substance, psychostasis, faith is the substance of the pragmaton. That is actions in view. Elpiso things, hope for evidence of things. Helicos pragmaton not seen. This is the word blepomenon not seen. And blepo oftentimes is not just for something that you view with your eyes, which oftentimes uses the word either optis or opta something. Yeah, optis optis, but uses the word blepo menon, which is a view, a perception, things perceived. So you ask the Old Testament saints, what do you perceive the Messiah will do? He will destroy the works of the devil. He will take away sin, iniquity and rebellion towards Almighty God.

He will bear the sins of many. You see, that is in view. And so you look at the actions in. In view of that view. And I'm saying this because I would have just gone to the Old Testament and we begin our study, but I had to use, I call it walk to the answer rule. I mean, let's see the answer first. The writer of Hebrews has given you a background. Paul didn't give us much of this. Paul simply just says the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty. Through God to the pulling down of strongholds. War term words. These are warlike forms, casting down, bringing every thought to the Obedience, subjection, those are military terms. Then you look at Ephesians chapter 6, Take unto yourself the old armor of God. They'll be able to stand in evil.

They have been done not to stand. Stand there for Then he talks about a military armor, talks about the sword of the Spirit. And then he says praying in the Spirit, which is the word of God, praying in the Spirit, Ephesians 6:10 through to 18. And then so when he says find the good fight of faith and all that, first Timothy 6 and 12, it's calls you to go and read the Old Testament. So the background we will have to use the faith factor, persuasion. That's where we look at the why and not the what. And then look at it in their world. What was it in their world? Let's view a few things. I know you've heard the question who was Cain's wife? The reason why. That question comes up threefold. Number one, Scriptures don't write where she came from.

And number two, which is very critical, is the fact that it was believed and assumed that there was just Abel, Cain, Adam and Eve. So that's the second assumption. And the third assumption is pure ignorance or well, maybe twofold, is not to know that genealogies were usually just men. So every time you find genealogy and you couldn't look at the statement made to Eve, the seed of the man shall bruise the head of a serpent. The seed of the woman shall bruise the head of the serpent. Everybody knows that when you say seed and then you look at Abel and Cain when told of any other children, because the focus was on the seed. And so the genealogies about men, not that there were no other children, but genealogy always focuses on men.

Until you read New Testament and that the barrier is broken somehow. Then knowing fully well, this comes to our world today. If you decide to marry your sister, you are going to spend a lot of time in jail. You get it? But in their world, they married their sisters. Sarah was Abraham's sister in their. So certain things will be seen today that wasn't seen then again, God has to walk through a lot of imperfections. Don't forget we said that in this background already you say incest. What was available if not your sister? I mean, in one breath somebody said it in a very jocular form that wasn't Eve in a format, in a way, also Adam's sister. Well, it looks like that they begin to look at that. Okay, some things were right then, not right today.

Now again, somebody was mentioning this about one of. I Think the deposed Ebbe Okano that he married his cousin. Well, in their own culture it is not forbidden. So that's why we said we need to look at the why and not just the what. So understanding the day. Okay, let's look at another thing we said in our study of Luke. Both look at this. Both Joseph and Mary came from David. That's very far. I understand. But it still shows that they could trace. And hey, let's look at it. If you look at human history, well, everybody here will eventually relate. That's a bit something very far. Don't embark on that kind of study yet. But you understand. So it therefore means that we must look at the why before we focus on the what.

And so that takes us into the reason why I'm doing this series discussion is because when we're done with it and the four Gospels and then the book of Acts, we're going to go to Judges and Joshua. I don't know whether you have read it over and over. There are so many difficult areas there that you can do all you can and discard who Joshua was. But Joshua is an elder. That was commended. You can't take that out of it. And so we must therefore read it in their world and beware of surface reading or like pretending atheists will do. They will lift the text out of their context. So would explore a few things in the background without being hypocritical. The first thing is to see the history of humanity. Wars were the norm. I mean, that's just simple.

Wars were the norm in how lands were cleaned. Have you tried to read the Yoruba Empire, Fulani Empire, Lupe Empire, the Oyo? I don't know whether you've tried to do it, but once in a while try just read it. I read the Yoruba empire, I read about the Oyo Empire. Pardon me, how you know, there was one recent fight about why a governor wanted to remove a king. And they said, no, there are 16 traditional. And then somebody had to tell the history. Do you know how they claim this place for you? This place you call your state? You eventually came and said, no, no, no, I'm the governor of this. They say, well, before the state was there was war. And it was the forefathers of this guy that brought this to you.

You said, of course, if you are a 21st century, forget all that, who cares? Oh, wow, that's stupid. You can't say who cares? Because that is history. And it did happen. And today you look at America is also claimed. It's a territory that was claimed by conquest. Call it in God we Trust. Fine, but came by conquest. Europe today, what we call the superpowers is based on what? Conquest. So even in our world, conquest and wars are justified means of claiming territories. USA and China today the issue is who can destroy the world faster. That's what they call superpowers. You have United nations after the first World War and the Second World War and then Hitler did what he did, the world came together and then did men separated men from the boys that since you have seen who is who.

Now we're going to have United Nations. You have Security council, you have this council. You have permanent seats. Those who are qualified to sit there, when they sit down. The USA has veto power. If you all agree USA I don't agree, so be it. They have NATO. You don't need to go and look at NATO. They have a treaty on arms. And you know, sometimes when you go and make mouth anywhere, maybe an American say I'm an American, Jack. At the end of the day what you are proud about is military power. So even in our world today, it therefore becomes very unfair if we go to the scriptures and act like it was a different planet, that's the same world. So military power, military strength is part of human history up till today. Why is Nigeria called the giant of Africa?

I don't think it's the size. I think it's basically look at the strength of the people that stay there, the armies. Nigeria has come has rescued many African countries at different points in time. And we are, we're grateful, we're glad. Look at the issue of Boko Haram today. I don't think Boko Haram will be. Let's even talk as Christians world men spirit filled. Call yourself any name. If you hear today that the army wiped out Boko Haram militant, you say. That is, that's absolutely wrong. Why should they do that? Can't they just hug them? You know, in fact, whether you like it or not, at every sound of the news that 66 Boko Haram militant fighters killed, you say thank God. Pretend I don't think so. If they say there's a terrorizing, maybe there's a guy who is a hired.

Okay, let me give you another one. A guy gets up in America begins to do mass shooting and he's brought down. You say oh thank God. Why you are quiet. You say thank God. That's what you say. You don't say why did they kill Him. No. In other words, you have put it on Daikosune. You have justified it in your own world. Don't forget the rule Lex Stalinoise. Can you not forget that you compare things with each other or armed robbers come to your estate, your state, your street, and then the. Maybe the civil. What do you call this? The vigilantes, as we call them in Nigeria. Hit back, you go, yeah, right. Okay, so I love you to understand context. That's what I'm trying to say. There will always be context. So wars are part of the whole world.

The usa, China, Great Britain. It's interesting that the countries that colonize USA are now afraid of usa. That's just the way it is. They now call them boss. USA got independence from people that are trying to get independence from usa. That's just the way the world is. And you know it will remain like that. What if you are called today to go and pray for soldiers? How are they going to pray? They are called to pray for the. For the military. What are you going to say? They're going to say, don't use your guns. The angels of God will walk with you. I don't think you're going to say that. Don't worry, you're all born again. God will fight for you. I'm not sure you're going to say that. You know, just putting everything in context.

Which means that war was a part or is a common feature of the fallen world. Stop thinking things are ideal. They were not ideal then and they are not ideal now. Don't forget the ideal is Genesis 1 and 2. And from Genesis 3, God has to walk with a fallen world. A few things to bring to put in mind also that Israel had wars up till a particular time in Bible history. And there were times that stop. Maybe somewhere along the line. Go to John 18:36. This is before Pilate. And Jesus says, my kingdom is not of the world. Of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, pay very good attention. Then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered through the Jews. But now is my kingdom not from hence this is vital.

If it were of this world, then my servants will fight. In other words, Jesus is saying. He's not saying he is wrong. No, he's not saying that. He's just saying that's not my kingdom. If they're of this world, then my servants will fight. Now in Luke's Gospel, somewhere in chapter 22, when Peter brought out the sword and then Jesus responded. And said, this is Your hour. Verse 53 and the power of darkness. Mark. Sorry. Matthew 26. 52. Put up again your sword into his place. For all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword. That's something he said. So we have the kingdom of this world, which he said, if thou build this world, then my servants will fight bringing it again within the context. So therefore, we have to look at the Israel wars within the context all over again.