He said, moses, because of the hardness of your heart suffered you to put away your wives. He says, but the beginning was not so. Now I want you to observe something. He uses male and female for mankind. And what God has joined together. At the beginning. So which means that righteousness is to put it back in what was right. So Moses, all right, because of the hardness of your heart towards what was right, they were already putting away wives. So Moses said, okay, this is what you do. Moses is not the one that started divorce. He's the one that said, okay, you can do it. However, let it be on these conditions. Now look at me. Now, if you go back to their world, what will be the goal of the condition? Wait, did Moses initiate divorce?

No, they were doing it before he came. My point is, why did he now give a bill of divorcement and gave conditions? Why? The goal is love. The goal is still what is right. Now, let mention it very quickly. There's nowhere that text of scripture is speaking against polygamy. People think that is what he's talking about. No, he's talking about putting away. You know, I know he has to come. We have to explain it very well, you know, and explain this. But he's supposed to know what he's not talking about. He's not talking about not having more. He's not putting away that the hardness of your heart was putting away. But Moses. So there are two things Jesus is saying. There is showing you the spiritual implication of their tendency towards marriage because their heart was hardened and they were away from God.

They were putting away. So you have, like we said, a multilateral, a multilayered understanding of that. There is the marriage, physical marriage, and there is a marriage of God where they are put away. So he says that you have been doing this. You've been having. So look at two things there. Divorce. Put it away. Is hardness of heart also putting away? Yes. So we have two things. The physical demonstration of a spiritual principle working in them. Does it make sense? Does it make sense? Because the physical union also it has within it. It shows a spiritual implication. The two what God has joined together, let no man put asunder. So God promised to put things back in what is right. He did. So go back to Romans. Sorry. Let me see whether we are flowing.

How many of you see the implication of a narrow understanding of righteousness? Can you see the view of a narrow view of it? You know, now don't forget that justification where a man is declared just because he's now in what is right is a part of it. But that's not what he's talking about. That's not. In fact, if you don't see the bigger picture, you won't understand what that personal justification is about. So look at this. In Romans 4. To 25, we read it about the Logizomai. It says it was accounted to him for righteousness. In Romans 5:12 to 19, you now have Adam, which means that along the line, Moses, now Paul are doing a contrast. In Romans 4, we saw a man that was accounted in the right. In the right or in that which is right because he believed.

In Romans 5, we saw a man that did not believe. Disobedience. Okay? In Romans 5:13, we have seen imputed elogia. In Romans 4:3, righteousness imputed logizomai. Look at the contrast. Now look at the key issue. If you miss this one, you miss everything. In Romans 5:14, what was Adam's role? This is where people mix it up. And I believe a lot of the Reformed theology as well, they mix it up. There is a belief that. Okay, so therefore what happened is that Abraham, what is happening is that Adam. There's Adam in all of us. Why do you say that? Because we are selling to Tracy the same way you treat it. Because we're all born from Adam and all of that. So you ask the question. Okay, fine. Okay. If we are born from Adam and then Adam is the sinner here.

Okay, now what about the new birth? Now that we are born again and we have the Holy Ghost, we don't have the spirit of unrighteousness. So that means the children that we give back to, they are Christians. They are born again. No, no, no. What are you talking about? No, no. It's still Adam. That is still pro. Something is wrong somewhere, you know? So Usually the role Adam played here is what many people don't get, and it's not difficult if you read Genesis. Nothing in Genesis presupposes that natural conception makes somebody a natural carrier of his spiritual DNA. Nothing in Genesis, because Moses lets you see from Adam, when there was Cain, there was Abel. You saw that there. You saw that Noah had different kind of kids, same as lot. You saw Abraham had Ishmael and he had Isaac had Jacob and esau.

Jacob had 12 children with all manner. So there was nothing that had a similar spiritual status with anybody. So nothing of that emanates from the law in Genesis. Nothing. Now notice what role Adam played again in the verbiage and writings of Genesis. Through one man, verse 12, sin entered into the world, and death by sin, and death passed upon all. For that all have sinned until the Lord sin was in the world. But sin is not imputed where there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses. That is the book of Genesis, right? Is that Genesis? Is that Genesis to Exodus? Good. Even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, they had not sinned after it. So after the similitude of Adam's transgression. So is it seen that passed from Adam or death? Huh?

I asked a question. Is it sin or death? He said death reigned even over them that had not sinned. Okay, so watch this. After the similitude uses the word hoimomia, H O M O I M O a Paul's style of writing in Romans 1:23, where he calls it image, an image, use it for idol worship. Then in Romans 6:5. Now, idol worship, Listen carefully to this now is imagery. And you find out in Genesis 3 there was a serpent in view. So in other words, idolatry is like a copy of what unbelief is. Worship of self, worship of desire. Anything man made that is worship is idolatry. That's why when you find work of the flesh idolatry, don't ever think he's saying that you are going to a shrine. No, it's what takes your obeisance. Worship that is man made.

So in Romans 6:5, it says, we have been planted in the likeness of his death. Likeness, image of his death done by God Himself. Romans 8:3. In the likeness of sinful flesh, the flesh of sin. Adam's sin in view. Romans 8:3. That's the incant of sin for sin, condemned sin in the flesh. Philippians 2:7, the incarnation of Jesus. Now look at Romans 5:4 14. Of course it's good to have taken out the Greek words here. Paraptoma, parakoi for disobedience, hamatia and all that. If you are going to get this, you have to resolve all of that. To sidestep, to violate, to go beside, to violate, to hear otherwise, paraque. They are all mixed air. Amata is the chief word there to miss the mark, which is the glory of God. How do you miss the mark?

The mark will continually be the image of God in man. God's humanity will be the man to come. Short of it is sin. To come short of the humanity of God is sin. That is why the believer today, okay, will sin when he doesn't act. God's humanity in man. That's what sin is. So watch this now. Romans 5:14. Who is the figure of him that is to come? And use the word here, Tuples pattern. The word he there is not in the Greek or the figure of that which is to come. The word melonas the coming things because he has already told you that it entered into the affairs of men over all. So that which is to come, that means it becomes a pattern.

So what Moses did in Genesis 2 and 3 is to show them that what they are doing in Deuteronomy 30 has a pattern. So you cannot understand Genesis 3 without going to Jeremiah 30 without going to Genesis 3. That is, every human being, all right, that comes into this world have two patterns in Genesis, Adam or Abraham. Adam or Abraham. So the word tuples in Romans 6:17, used for doctrine. Old Testament teaching, we have a pattern how it is taught. First Corinthians 10. Notice that again to the believer today, verse 6 and 11, saying that the conduct of the church in the wilderness there, or the ecclesia in the wilderness, joy of Israel, is a pattern unto us or for us. Philippians 3:17. Paul talks about a pattern of believing. 1 Thessalonians 1:7. 2 Thessalonians 3:9. Notice this word type. Type is never used.

Please. For procreation it is used, for example, 1st Corinthians 10, 6, 11. I'm repeating myself. Romans 6:17. Philippians 3:17. 1 Thessalonians 1:7. 2 Thessalonians 3:9. Example. So 1st Timothy 4:12. Example. Titus 2:7. Example. Hebrews 8:5. Example. 1St Peter 5, 3 Hebrews 8:5. For pastors. 1St Timothy 4:12. Pastors. Titles to several pastors. Now let me ask you. An example means what you can follow after, right? An example is not imposed. Are you following what I'm Saying here, where there's an example laid is an act of your will to do it or not. So to post is an example. So we have two examples in Genesis, the one that did what was not in the right in the image of God, and the one that did what was right in the right. So you can see that Moses did a contrast between Abraham and Adam.

Now look up again, please. Look up, please. In the. Look up, please, everybody. I want you to see something in the doctrine of Exodus 2 to Deuteronomy, what was the message? What was the promise Moses was preaching? The promise made unto Abraham, right? Are you there? When they did not believe, what pattern did he show them? Genesis 2 and 3. Can you see what I'm saying now? So what you have is a pattern of faith which is what is right in what is right or to do right in what is right towards what is right. Look at Romans 4, Verse 12 is the father of circumcision. To them who are not only, but who are also walk in the steps of that faith of our Father Abraham. So the issue was faith to believe. To believe in God's faithfulness.

Look at the word steps there. It's actually a single one. The word each nos I C H N O S is a step. Each nose. 2Nd Corinthians 12:18. So Adam is never used as the progenitor of sinners. I desire Titus. And with him I said a brother. Did Titus make again of you? Walked ye not in the same spirit? Walked ye not in the same step? Just one. One Peter 2:21. Jesus. So both Abraham and Adam are what examples? First Peter 2:21 or even there unto were you called because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that we should follow his footsteps, his footstep, each nose. So go to Romans 5. So what went wrong in Adam? Death, sin and death. What's God's promised righteousness? Genesis 3:15 and 16:15. Precisely. Genesis 2:1:3, the Sabbath and all of that. Genesis 2:22:18, the Azar.

Genesis 2:24. One flesh. Pay attention here. God's righteousness, what God will set in the right. Okay. And what will be accounted to a man will be when he believes he has done what is right in what? That which is right. I said she open to her now. Romans 5. For by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. By the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. I have the word appointed. Again, using it as an exemplary format. So you have obedience and disobedience. So what is Jesus obedience that he fulfilled the Scriptures. So the first, second and last Adam. Second Adam is last Adam. It just means the last one. This is finally. This is right. You have Genesis 1, 2 and 3. Enclosing there is the first Adam, a living soul. The other one is called a life giving spirit.

Another phrase we are going to see. To see the contrast of Moses is the word seed in Romans 4:13. Pay attention. For the promise that he should be the heir of the world was not to Abraham or to his seed through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. What seed is New Testament used by? 43 Times. But check the conversation Jesus had with the pharisees in John 8:33 and 37. John 8, 33 and 37 will be Abraham's seed. Then he answered them in 37, I know that you are Abraham's seed, but you seek to kill me because my word hath no place in you. Then it says in 39, if you are Abraham's children, you will do the works of Abraham. So we have Abraham's seed, that is they came from his loins. We have Abraham seed. Those who believe.