It's either you believe the book or you don't. You cannot cherry pick which one that you are going to choose. I'm saying this because I assume you are all atheists. So God's eventual goal should be our pursuit. I'm going to ask you a question. Did God intend to save every nation, male and female? Yes. Genesis 1:26, 28, Genesis 12:3 to Abraham, Genesis 22, 17, 18, Genesis 28, 13, 14. That is at the beginning principle of reading the Scriptures. So I must be able to avoid being boxed into a corner and isolating the walls without reading everything together as a book and then reading it in their world and in the context what was available to God, what man had. Nothing presents this more when we look at the sufficient and efficient means than Jonah. We've done this study before.

We already have the book of Jonah in study. But nothing stops us from looking at it again. Jonah, chapter four. You know the story. Jonah is going somewhere. This is very mind capturing. Jonah is meant to go to Nineveh. Nineveh again is a gentile nation, a great city that had wickedness. Jonah 1 and 2, he's meant to go there and to tell them your time is up. There's disaster and destruction. Jonah doesn't end up there, ends up in the belly of the whale and Jonah dies. Exactly what he says about Nineveh happens to Jonah. That story already equates Jonah with the Ninevites. You must see that it is sublime and subtle message. You are saying they will die. You died first. And then he says, he cries out, salvation is of the Lord. I will forsake my mercies and observe lying vanities.

Jonah 2, 8, 9. He comes out just like Jesus from the dead. And then by the time he gets to Nineveh, they had repented. They already had the gospel and yet they had idol worship. There is no civilization today that didn't have the gospel before idol worship. That is critical. And then God says to Jonah, no bother, they won't die. One of the reasons, I guess, Jonah was angry was because he had died too. So he vexes. And somewhere Jonah is wondering, why wouldn't they die? Jonah is disappointed. So if you look at that, if that is a typical vessel of God, is he sufficient? Yes, because we can see from his experiences, God used it. Is he efficient? No. He's a disobedient prophet that was saved by God's power, that was angry at God's grace, and yet preached God's Gospel.

And this is the story of the Old Testament servants. And Jonah says something that you can't miss out. Jonah, chapter four. I knew that you are a gracious God. Verse two. Merciful, slow to wrath and of great kindness, and repents thee of evil. This isn't Exodus, chapter 34 and verse 6. Jonah knew that when he was going to Nineveh. Why then does he have destruction in his heart again? He is a sufficient tool, but not an efficient one. Everyone is like that as well. Isaiah will cry, woe to sinners. Then he will say, all we, like sheep, have grown astray. They have turned every man to his own way. Isaiah 53, verse 4 and 5. So the question is, does God redeem his enemies? Yes. Does God save those who hate him? Yes. Romans 5, 10. While were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

God commended his love towards us. While we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. And Paul, therefore, looking at the Nineveh story, the story of the Jebusites, I like that part. The story of the Canaanites. Paul will say in Romans, chapter five. And that's what you have to. You have realize that this is the text that Paul is teaching from. If he says in Romans 5 and verse 8, while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. Being justified by his blood, we're saved from wrath through him. And verse 10 is critical. When were enemies, we're reconciled to God by the death of his Son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Matthew 5:43, 48, Jesus says about the Father and Luke 23:34, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do.

So we can say safely that Jesus is the bigger picture. The efficient method that came through the Sufficient and inefficient means made, born, made of a woman, made under the law to redeem them that were under the law. That's the wisdom of God. And Paul highlights that critically. Let's proceed. So in our study of the Old Testament, we must not ignore any fact at all. Like I mentioned the other day. Don't hide under one finger. Don't say, well, that's the Old Testament. We are in the New Testament now. We are in Christ. We are Christo centered. That's the Old Testament. Or come up with the lame excuse they didn't know God. You know what that means? If you say that they didn't know God, then who did they know?

And if they the writings of this men are today the submissions of the New Testament. That means we must tread carefully in how we use our vocabulary. Now goes into the details. A few facts. A few facts here that will require that we also think we've already seen that. Yes, like I said, we'll go to the character theology. The Catholic theology is very critical here. And then the five fold method, the Genesis principle, Exodus, Leviticus, which is worship numbers, whether it is obedience. And then we have the Deuteronomy principle must be used in the way we study. So let me throw typical question at you. Well, if you say that God is as fair and as just as you say, why did he choose Abel over Cain? Let me think for you.

Well, in any sphere of life, you have two kids, someone died, of course there were more than two. I said this the other day, why was King's wife not mentioned? Because our story was not needed. And then I said the way of writing of the Old Testament. So in Near Eastern tradition they didn't use women at all. Women were also not part of genealogy. That's just something to think about some other time. So I want to ask you, didn't God create the enmity by choosing one over the other? Now that becomes very unfair because humanity accepts volition what you want. Now we have already said that God has an overall principle of morality that is justified by the time you look at the whole of humanity. I said that to say that Cain is not rejected because Abel is morally better.

No, Cain is rejected because Cain chose to serve Cain and dovetail into Jacob and Esau, as it were. It appears to be a slight difference in Jacob and Esau from Cain and Abel. Like I mentioned the other time, it will appear very easy for anyone to say religion is why we have extremes. I often tell reformed theologians how they use soft spot targets. You Want to talk about charisma? You go for the TV people, those who you already know might definitely not be the good examples. That's dishonest. You haven't gone out to see the whole. You can't use two, three people or even 20 to justify condemning people that are over 100 million. I said that to say that if you look at a king. Oh, okay. I wanted to say you now look at different individuals in history.

Have you heard about a guy in Nigeria, Jizzo Igbo, who under the sphere of religion committed incest, were doing all sorts of things, you know or you hear about Jim Corras, Jim Jones, different cult leaders in history. And they started out with the name of Jesus. And then you wonder how was it possible for them to perpetuate those things. It is that inability, either inability or deliberate attention attempt to read scriptures in isolated format or to read it in today's world in contrast with their world. It therefore means that Jim Jones, Jezor Igbo and all those guys, Jesu Igbo is in Nigeria or David Koresh were bad examples. They can't be used as stereotype. By the time you read the entire story of God in the Old Testament, tolerance is part of God's traditions among men.

Romans 12 and 8 says to live peaceable with all men. Romans 12:21 says, don't be overcome with evil, overcome evil with good. Ephesians 3:28. Neither Greek Jew or Jew, neither born nor free, neither male nor female. Not male, not female. If you. Ephesians 2, 11 and 22. And when you read the Epistles, when Paul talks about warfare, he says it's spiritual and it's too preaching. Second Corinthians, chapter 10, verse 3 to 5. Ephesians 6, 12, 18. So if that is sorted, and the reason why that is so is because the efficient means has come and has replaced the non efficient, though sufficient method. Do we now discard the inefficient method? No, we only explain it because without the inefficient method we can't have the efficient one. That's just as simple as it is. Every nation has its own child history.

America has its, England has its. Africa has it, Germany has its. You don't justify the bad apples of that day. Pay attention with today. But you know another interesting thing? Their nation today is what it is because of the same people that they discard. So in every nation under the heaven, the greater mighty nations, whether it's China, whether it's West, I won't say West. Germany. Whether it's Germany, it was US and East Germany, of course they had the Berlin Wall. Whether it's USSR now, they keep coming. Russia and all the other Baltic republics, whether it's the United States of America, Canada, Australia. There's always that part of history where you wonder what exactly happened. Yet everyone is honest about history. And honest is not to say, yes, we got here because of this. Well, I wish it was not that way.

But we're here anyway. So the same thing is how the Messiah came. Therefore, it becomes dishonest to say it's because of this, of seeking to worship one God. That is why we had so many wars. That's not true. The Romans killed the Jews because the Romans worshipped polytheism. They worshiped multiple gods and went after Jews that had a single God. That becomes a plural argument. So the Cain example, it's not that God favored Abel over Cain. That becomes his honest. Because it was Abel that was killed. What a favor. It was Abel that was killed, it was Cain that was preserved. And God even said no one should touch him. Only thing about Cain was that he was independent of God's mercy and grace. But by the time you look at Jacob and Esau, Moses throws a contrast. Jacob is favored over Esau.

Esau doesn't receive his inheritance rights as a firstborn child. But in Genesis 33, verse 4, Esau reconciles. That's different with Jacob. And as we read earlier, Edomites were given special privileges along the way. So God didn't choose Israel to the exclusion of other nations. Because within Israel we had the disobedience. Within the Gentiles we had the believers. Rahab Ruth Nineveh of Jonah's day. It's just like saying God chose the tribe of Judah to bring the Christ to spite the others. No, you just have to choose what's offendable. Judah became just a tribe, a vehicle sufficient but not efficient. And within the tribe of Judah had some very nasty figures. In fact, if you look at how Jacob describes Judah, you wonder, why was he chosen? Genesis 37:23 how he describes the Judah. Our Moses described Judah Paladin.

Reuben said unto them, shed not blood, but cast him into the spit. You know? And then Judah 26 says, what prophet is if we slay our brother and conceal his blood, come, let us sell him. That's the Judah. And verse 30. Okay, 26 I read that. Doesn't mean anything. It's just what's available and doesn't mean that Judah or his brothers could not receive salvation. We have to always have the bigger picture in mind. One thing we can't take out from all of this and the New Testament is that God loves enemies. You can't serve God in the Old Testament. That's what Jesus said. What is the question? Matthew 22:36,38 said, what's that great and one commandment, that great commandment of the law. Magas enter me.

He says, love your Lord, your God with all your heart, might and soul, and love your neighbor as yourself. Upon this hangs the Lord and the prophets. Now let me throw something in the mix. If it is so, why then do you and I, at least those who are seated here now, argue against the doctrine of universalism of salvation? Which means if we substantiate what we have said so far, that means eventually, well, the wars have been done. We've explained it away. Then why is there the concept of hell? Why do we have Sheol Gehina? Why do we have again in the New Testament the concept of apple looming? Why, if God is hospitable, absolutely welcoming, why are some for destruction? Now let me use a very typical example for you.