Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received, and wherein you stand, by which also you are saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you are believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How? That Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried and he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. And we looked at the word preached, which means to announce something, to deliver a message, a particular message. And we said, the core issue is Christ died for our sins. So that narrative should help you when you read the Old Testament, that it is Christ that died.

So if it's Christ that died, and death is like a symbolism of sin and the wrath of sin. So if it is Christ that died, that means you go and reread the Old Testament. If it is Christ who died, if he is the one that was buried and raised from the dead, go and reread the Old Testament and rework your narratives. Apostles, this is much preached. And we preach that Christ is crucified. The wisdom of God, 1st Corinthians 1:21, 1st Corinthians 1:18, 1 Corinthians 1:24, and all of that. And so we said, the word according to the Scriptures already puts the responsibility on the reader to read the whole book. In other words, you. You have to read it according to the Scriptures. Cartographers. I also pick this, that it is a scholastic way of saying, read everything according to the Scriptures.

We mean I must read it. Should I say scholastically, I must read it academically. I must apply rules of normal studies to it. In other words, why? We went into how the context of the Bible is first and foremost Genesis to Deuteronomy, then the context of Deuteronomy becomes Numbers. Numbers is Leviticus, Exodus. Why is there Leviticus? Because there was a deliverance. Where was there numbers of unbelief? And all of that is because there was a breakdown in worship and the faith they should have in God. Why is there a Deuteronomy Second Law? Because of unbelief. That's why Jesus said, because of the unbelief. Matthew 19, 7, 8. Then why is there a deliverance at all? Because there was a promise in Genesis. And so why is there a promise in Genesis?

Because Genesis 1 and 2 shows that something had broken down and God wants to restore it in his own man. That is the image of God. So all that would be the way you Read the Bible according to the Scripture. So we've looked at the laws of Moses and said that they were just modified legislation. There was already legislation of the idea. For example, look at the Roman law, the issue of using. And that's why till today we. We need. We use cross. That is that thing that you have two pieces of wood one across the other. But the Jews use a tree. So there's a lot of debate about was it a cross. Of course, by the time you use the word cross, which is a Greek word, it looks like cross.

But Isaiah said when you look at crosses, everyone that hanged on the tree is it 21 now 32. And this, that is Galatians 3, 13 and 14. And then bore our sins on his body on the tree. First Peter 2, 24, you discover that it's actually tree that the Jews use. Cross is what the Romans would use. And Yehudah wickedness. People who have done their job in heresy were able to locate that a tree not across. But then there's a lot of. It's debatable because was Jesus crucified under Roman laws or under the laws of blasphemy? Then that is where the context will come from. If you see it from the Jewish angle, it's a tree. If you see it from a Roman angle, it will be a cross. It's not necessarily something that we have to create a denomination over.

But the thing is that they had their own justice system and it was not of God. And they would ordinary malefactors, those people who are rebellious, who just insurrection is death. They had all of that. They had their laws even at that point. And to crucify upside down, they did to Peter from historical facts was from their laws. And so it becomes unjust and unfair to say that this was from God. Because the world has had then in their world, they had their own legislation. So Moses was modifying what was in existence. So we looked at. Have we looked at the Hittite laws of sowing that said if you sow somebody's land is death. Whereas Moses says that you just do compensation. Okay, so it was a modification. The issue of also they had.

Every time there's an offense, for example, they never one thing. I also found out that in those materials and codes, there was nothing called anger, you know, rough. It was just a regular. It was justice. Retribution was justice and all of that. I read an account of someone who mistakenly took another person's ox. And before they could conclude the judgment, they just cut off the guy's head. And he was like, what and that was it. So they now tried to find out, okay, when they now brought the story back. This was, I think, 2,000 years before Christ when they tried to bring the story back. But this guy, it was mistakenly. The guy said, well, the judge simply just said mistakenly or not mistakenly, that the person needed his ox at that point. And that was all that.

Either way, he would still have deserved to die. This is really funny. And that was what was in existence. That point tilted a lot for the rich, you know, against the poor. We had the Hittite laws code, we had the Egyptian laws and all of that. Now there's another concept that I suggest we should also look at, and that's the concept of an eye for an eye. Exodus 21, Verse 23. An eye for an eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for food. 24. No, 23. If any mischief follow, then shall you give life for life, eye for an eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot, burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe. So Leviticus 24, Verse 17 to 22. Some of your Leviticus is just opening. Very well.

Is who you are in Christ that you know very well. He that kills any man shall surely be put to death. He that kills a beast shall make it good, beast for beast. If a man causes blemish of his neighbor, as he has done, shall be done to him. Bridge for breach, eye for an eye, tooth for tooth. As he has caused a blemish in a man, so shall be done to him. So it is the law of compensation. They call it the leg stalling noise. L E X T A L I O N I S lex palionis. That is retribution. Now we will have assumed that what he's saying is an eye for an eye. If you remove my eye, I take your own. No, it's actually a figure of speech. If you read what we read again, it says life for life.

That is if you kill someone, you will be killed. How many of you know dasils exists today? Come on. In every. I mean, the. The is a capital offense. If you kill, they killed. And how many of you would have ever felt it was unjust? Today? No, I think we'll have felt. Yes. Right. You wouldn't have felt. I mean, if they say a policeman, maybe some a thief came to your estate and carried a gun and then somehow, fortunately, maybe killed one of the security men or one of the people staying there. And then, you know, I heard that the policeman shot him down. He'll have said, why did he do that? Is he like it? No, you see, you see. So you don't know how to turn the left cheek.

So that is even today, thousands of years after you still apply the legs talonis. You still do it. And in fact I know even amongst our parents then you say what do you. Oh yeah now do this mark. It's very interesting. But the way they did all the government college was very. We had our own code in the boarding house if they catch you because of course it's an offense in school to fight so. But I mean boy is it boy school, man. It's a boy school. How will you all fight a boy school? If I. When I read the story of my dad, you know when this school and the things that they did and I looked at him that you're a hypocrite man. And I told him you guys were because he was one of the people who confiled their own history.

They did first 25 years, second 25 years. So they're a hypocrite now. You guys used to steal out now you were going town. He said yes, he knows. There's one of his classmates the man sleep. No, he's not lady still alive. He's a very popular Nigerian. I won't mention his name that you know, somebody offended him. Then he elect when they recruit the person and put a live wire on the. You know the bunk. The one is the bu. I don't want to mention this including seniors. You know so we had this. If you fight yourselves the seniors will just take you and then they put you in the like call it the. The maybe like a. The court and they say beating yourselves. So everybody seniors will take. Sit down and take conflicts and be watching you.

So now we now created something we said whenever I see together again. Don't let the seniors see you. We now take you somewhere I used to be. We take it. We call it Devil's Land. We juniors went there to cut the grass there. That purpose so was far call it Devil's Land. So say let's go to Devil's. Let's go to Devil's Land. Devil's Land. So we can settle this once and for all. So you get Devil's Land. I'll wrestle in the middle. I said say what you said again? I said if. If they bore you well. I said. Will you take that? Relax. What are you saying now? Are you saying you can slap me? Yeah, yeah. Our own code. So every society has their own legislation how they resolve issues. You understand?

So if you say you're not fighting that you are born again, that you're working in the spirit. Okay, fine, give him six laps so that for the rest of your life in this school you not look at him anyhow. Again, we usually increase it to six so that we know by the fourth one you will react. Sometimes you hear things like that. That's why when you now give auto cop for salvation, you have to come out again because you know that you are not born again. So an eye for an eye is not bodily mutilation, rather it is weigh it and put what fits. That's what he's saying. Now let's look at how Jesus explained it. Matthew 5. It's like let's weigh what he has done.

It's actually faith and justice which is still applicable today and was also in some of those codes of their day. Matthew 5, Verse 38. You have heard it has been said, an eye for an eye, tooth for tooth. That is, you know, do. Exactly. Let's get the justice back. What has been done to you, I said unto you resist not evil, but whatsoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other. If a man shall sue you at the law, take away thy coat, let him take away thy cloak also. Whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him. Twain give to him that asks thee, and from him that would borrow of thee, turn not away. I think you understand that.

In fact in verse 29, if your right eye offend you, pluck it out and cast it from you. If it's profitable for thee, only the members should perish, then the whole body should be cast into hell. Your right hand should offend you. Of course I know you don't think it means you should remove your eye. You get it? So an eye for an eye is just a compensation for what has been done. Basically, it's not to remove eye. It's called like mentioned lex thoroughness. It's a principle applicable as far as 5,4000 years. More. Yeah, more Lex talion is okay. Now what Moses has done, like I said earlier, was to simply improve. I found one historian, Bible historian by name of Bevan Childs.

B R E V A R D C H I L D S. He said, from all indications, Moses legislations was an improvement from the primitive law. It was meant to stop the rich and powerful from giving undue punishment. Then if somebody takes, like I mentioned, somebody takes almost ox, they just kill him. And they said no, there's not you that's not eye for an eye. Do you understand? That is an eye for the heart. Somebody steals your car, you say cut off. You said, that is a tooth for an eye that's too heavy. So that's. So that was supposed to modify. It was supposed to reduce the kind of primitive laws of their day. The Umurabi code was bone for bone, which was also adopted later. So basically, you know, it's not. It's just a principle of law. Let me also add this in.