My firstborn says so. Do you understand now, if this is what happens in your culture, this is exactly what being a son means. We were also under. Let's say something quickly. I intend to leave that till Saturday, but let's just see some Galatians 4. It says, a child deferring nothing from a servant, though it beloved Lord of all is under tutors and governors. This is their own system. So were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. Is that Egypt? Is that Egypt? Is that Egypt? GALATIANS 4. But when the fullness of time came. GALATIANS 4. 4. The fullness of time came. So, yeah, 4. 4. The fullness of time which plays out in Genesis appointed time. Genesis 17, verse 19 shall bear this son. Indeed, in Jacob called his name Isaac. You should start by covenant. 21 2.

At the set time. Yep. At the set time of which God has spoken of. At the set time. At the appointed time. So Galatians 4. The fullness of time was come that Sarah. And that's also the Exodus, because you have Genesis 15, Verse 13. Thy she shall be a stranger in a land is not theirs they shall serve them, shall afflict them 400 years, and I'll judge. And afterward they come with substance and all that. So it says, at that time God sent forth his son made of a woman, made under the law to redeem Exodus. Them that were under the law that we might receive adoption of sons. Because you are sons. God has sent forth the spirit of his son into your hearts, crying Abba father, that no more a servant, but a son.

And if a son, then an heir of God. Now look at how he describes the laws. How be it then, when you knew not God, you did service unto them, which by nature are no gods. But now, after you have known God, rather have known of God, you turn again to the weak and beggarly elements, whereunto you desire again to be in bondage days, months, times and years. Which is what Moses was doing. He was taking them from idolatry to the worship of God. All right, using the same elements by which they practice idolatry. The use of the tabernacle, the use of elements, the use of sacrifices. And all of that we exploit as we go further. So the Genesis concept is not just historical, it is theological. It is the overriding, or let's say the first principle of theology.

Where is it in the genealogy? If it's not found in Genesis, it means it's not in the genealogy, it is not there. If it's not there, it can't be. Theology, faith, hope, love, the church, and all of that are founded in the Genesis truth, sometimes in a very germ form, but to be found. Let's see how all New Testament writers treated Genesis. Of course, Paul is overwhelming. Romans 5:12. Through one man, sin entered the world. Death ruined from Adam to Moses. Romans 5:14 in Galatians 3:13, that the promise of Abraham might come on the Gentiles. Galatians 3, 13, 14, the promise is made to Abraham and his seed. Galatians 3, 15, 16, Galatians 4 to Abraham, that's Genesis in First Peter, First Peter. Three, verse six. Sarah obeyed Abraham. That's Genesis. First Peter 3:20, Noah, that's Genesis. Of course, 1st Peter 1:20.

Already we've quoted that. That is 2nd Peter 2, verse 4. Angels that sinned Noah, verse 5, Sodom and Gomorrah, verse 6, Genesis, Lot, verse 7, Genesis, James 2, abraham, Verse 23 and all that. Genesis, Jude, Verse 5. Save the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed those that believe not, and angels which kept not their first estate. Genesis, sodom and Gomorrah 7, Genesis and Exodus. Hebrews 2 as Abraham, Hebrews 7, Abraham, Hebrews 6, Abraham, First John 3:12, Cain, Genesis. In that form, that's the only biblical name that he mentions. First John 3 Now with the sons of God. That's a Genesis Exodus echo. So virtually Every New Testament writer had the beginning and Moses principle in all they wrote beginning at Moses and all the prophets and Moses and all the prophets.

So the John 1:1 concept, the logos concept, is to see the whole story. The unifying concept of Scripture, the promise, the bondage, the exile, life from death, inheritance, the land are things that bound Genesis through to Malachi. Look at this. Adam and Eve, sin, they were chased out of the land. What was said to Israel, the day you don't obey, you'll be out of the land. Similar disobedience kept them out of the land. Adam and Eve, same as Israel, that flows through to Malachi. So therefore every New Testament concept is an Old Testament truth explained. This therefore leads us to phrases. For example, the phrase blessed. Was it just the New Testament writers, even including Jesus, who used the word machairos eulogitis and didn't mention material things? Was it a New Testament innovation? No. Look at Genesis. A blessed means prosperity, material prosperity.

Then the genealogy of it does not answer to it or doesn't support it. The first time you see the word blessed, which is the Hebrew word barak means to kneel. It is kotzi. The Hebrew word barak is kotsi. And the reason why it's been explored into other things is because when someone is treated with such courtesy, it's because the beneficiary of the courtesy is seen as fortunate or special. So Barack means to kneel, is used to give courtesy. He used to also congratulate. Genesis122 is the first time you see it. He blessed them and said, be fruitful, multiply, fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth. Genesis 1:28 he blessed them and said, notice that it always is accompanied with speaking. So the blessing is what he said, saying. It's an invocation, it's a mention, it's a commentary.

Genesis 2:3. He blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because in it he had rested from all his work which God hath made. He blessed the seventh day. So it means that the word barak simply means to speak well off. To speak well off. To speak in respect of. To speak, to congratulate, to speak, to attest to what is good. Genesis 5 and 2 repeated. Genesis9 1. Genesis 09:26. Blessed be the Lord God of Shem, and Canaan shall be his servant. Blessed be God. Genesis 12:2 I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. Genesis 12. 2. Yeah, the 12. 3. I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse thee. Genesis 14, verse 19. Blessed be Abraham of the Most High God.

He blessed him and said, blessed be Abraham of the Most High God, possessor of heaven and earth, and blessed be the Most High God. So blessedness refers to a speech. It describes his speech or what he said. Genesis 14, verse 19. Can I read that? Genesis 17, verse 16. I will bless her and give thee a son also of her. Yea, I will bless her. She shall be a mother of nations, king of people, shall be of high. Genesis 17:20. I have blessed him, will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly. Twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation. Genesis 18 and verse 8 or 18. Abraham shall surely become a great and a mighty nation. And all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him. Genesis 22:17 18. In blessing I will bless thee.

In multiplying, I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the seashore. And thy seed shall possess the gates of the enemy. Verse 18. Thy seed shall be of the nations of the earth. Be blessed, because thou has obeyed my voice. Genesis 24. The Lord have blessed Abraham in all things. Genesis 24, verse 11. No, not verse 11. Okay, verse 11. And he made his camels to kneel down. The word Barak is there to kneel down. Genesis 24, verse 27. Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham. Genesis 24:31. Thou blessed of the Lord. Genesis 21. Sorry, 24:35. The Lord had blessed my master Greekly. So it's used for God, and it's used for man. And the fact that it's used for God shows that it should cause us to think.

It means to congratulate. Where I say, bless the Lord, O my soul and all that is within me, bless his holy name. So it means, you are fortunate, or you have done well. You are fortunate, or you have done well. So let's run through the Epistles on this or the four Gospels. In Matthew 5 majorly Jesus used the word machaeros. Fortunate. Fortunate. Psalm 1, verse 1. Blessed is a man that walks not is the blessedness of doing the word. Psalm 1, verse 1. Acts 20:35 is more blessed to give than to receive. 1St Timothy 1:11. The glorious gospel of the blessed God is for God. First Timothy 6:15. Blessed for God. So do we say God is fortunate? No. First Peter 3:14 and one Peter 4:14. So if the word Blessed is used for God, which should mean fortune or being fortunate.

That means that what he's simply saying is describing who God is. Not describing material wealth, it's just describing who God is. It's used for praise. 1St Peter 3:14. Watch this. But if you are if you suffer for righteousness sake, happy are you. 1St Peter 4:14 happy are you. Acts 26:2 Paul says, I'm a happy man. So it means you are happy or you are in a state of cheerfulness. So when we say blessed be God, it means God is cheerful about this. Second word is okay, James 1:25 the same man is blessed in his deed. That means the deed. What he has done is fortunate. Ephesians 1:3 is another adjective. Hulogitos more of words.

Mark 14:61 Luke 1:68 Romans 1:25 Romans 9:5 2nd Corinthians 1:3 2 Corinthians 11:31 1st Peter 1:3 of course you have the word in Matthew 5:44 Bless them that curse you means to speak well off. So the concept of blessedness from Genesis refers to what is said about another. What is spoken of about another is found in words and deeds. Again, the concept of being a father we've seen that is in Abraham being raised from the dead, also being Delivered from bondage, I.e. Genesis 22 verse 2 Exodus 4:22 Isaiah 7:14 the virgin shall conceive before a child. Isaiah 9, 6 and 7 Everlasting Father unto us a son is born Sorry, a child is born unto what his son is given. So let's again explore a few narratives.

Whether you look at the Isaac and Ishmael narrative where Ishmael or Isaac has the blessing of inheritance and it is not wealth because Ishmael equally had wealth. Or you look at Jacob and Esau the writer Moses lets us see that Jacob was the reason why. He shows us that Jacob cheated. His mom told him to go and lie is to show us that it was by grace when the father laid hands on him. He didn't translate into natural wealth because that was not know what happened to him. He Simply in Genesis 28 believed all right and gave his allegiance to Yahweh. That was what it was. Genesis 28 so Romans 9 doesn't talk about, oh, he got it by lying. No, you can't do that. That's not it. He was blessed by faith, not by lying. Did he believe in the blessing? He did.

That's why he asked his brother to sell his birthright to him. He did. And why would he say that because they know the story of their dad. Their dad was not the first child, but the dad was his son, and a land was given to him by the virtue of a promise. So when he says, give me this, what belongs to you? In the Near Eastern tradition, the first child takes the right of the firstborn, where he has more than all the other kids. So when they give you this thing and you know, isod in mind, So Romans 9 clears all that for us. So we must be very clear in the way we understand biblical concepts in Genesis.

It's without doubt, without a shade of doubt, that the concept of son, the concept of blessedness, or any other concept must be found in those books. I just showed you that the early church writers, the New Testament writers, they were very clear on the use of Genesis. Amen. We'll continue the next 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/