First before the world unto aguri. Again, that is general. You see, before the world. From the foundation of the world. You are referring to the Book of Genesis, where you look at actions. Romans 5:12. Sin entered into the world as another concept we have there. So therefore, when he says parables for the world, which means that the book of Genesis is heavily invested in parables. So the creation of the world, which is true about God because he's a creator, will therefore become an illustration. Water, the wind on it, darkness, light the seed, the sun, moon and stars. Also a new creation in our image after our likeness. Okay, then marriage will also be illustrative. For this reason, a man will leave his father and mother and cleave unto his own wife. They shall be one flesh. And he says, man is not good.

That man should be alone will make an azar. So parables are never perfect because they are not the perfect message. So you just say what is? Because you look at the fact that the Ezekiel man shall not be alone. I'll make an help corresponding to him. I showed the other corresponding to him. It is not good. The very first time you find the phrase not good, we'll come to that Also not good. The very first time you see the word is not good. So which means that before an unbelieving audience, he said, it is not good for you to be without a savior. So it is not a marriage seminar that Moses is talking about. Moses is simply taking them to a promise and look at something. You have to quickly address your mind to that.

In Genesis, it is almost 100% sure that Moses replaced Adam with Abraham. So which means that for that, and you know what did he go to Egypt to say? The God of. Not the God of Abel, not the God of Noah, not the God of Enoch, not the God of Methuselah, the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. But there's a History to why God gave the promise. So that means that God gave a new covenant to Abraham. What do you mean new? He renewed his promise to man. He renewed it to Abraham. He renewed his promise to man, to Abraham. And so you see that in Moses writings, it was still about the promise made to Abraham.

Abraham featured in the story in Genesis, but it was to show that it was God being faithful to what he had wanted to do at the inception of the world. Abraham failed. Sorry, Abraham believed where Adam failed. Stuff like that, you know, just at the background. So Genesis therefore is invested a lot in parables. Let's go back again to Psalm 78:2. It shows that from the beginning of the world, parables were explained. Now, do you know that it doesn't mean that Abraham taught Isaac in parables, at least that wasn't what we're saying. What we're saying is the writer Moses, because there was meant to be an exodus of an unbelieving people, used parables heavily.

So in Proverbs 1 and verse 6, to understand a proverb, the interpretation that is satire using grammar, Melitsah in Hebrew and the words of the wise and their dark sins. So which means that the words of the wise hair is the Torah and the wise sins. So where you have, for example, the use of old, it means Genesis. So if it's therefore authenticated that Moses wrote the Book of Job, it means the book of Job will also be invested in a lot of figurative expressions, prologue, monologue, dialogue, imageries and what have you. Let's therefore view something. And I want you to pay attention. I'm probably going to come back there. And that's the concept of a son. Let's look at the interplay of words. You have. Abraham had two sons. And this is what Paul was saying in Galatians 4.

One of the bond woman, okay. And one of the free woman. But the one that was called his only son was the free woman. So look at two worlds. From the dead or Abraham's dead body came Isaac. So the concept of the son. The concept of the son will be from the dead. Is declared the Son of God. Romans 1:4, from the resurrection from the dead, that is the illustration used is Abraham's body now dead, Sarah's womb considered dead. So Romans 4, Paul is saying there's a miracle. But that miracle is meant to be a parable, because if son is I gave birth to you, then it won't be Isaac, it will be Isaac and Ishmael. So the concept of Isaac is parabolic. To say, look, it is what comes from the dead. And why would God be doing that?

Because death had come by sin. So if I'm renewing a promise, I must play out the circumstances that are present. God is not denying what has happened to man. So I'm playing out that has brought about me renewing the promise. And so it will have to happen through Nomad who cannot have a child. So that is Abraham. So the concept of sonship must be explained. The second concept, pay attention here, is that Israel in Egypt, when they were called out. Now let me add this. Ishmael is born. Let's play it in two ways. Cain is born by Adam. Adam has sinned. Cain is born by Adam. There was Abel, and Abel was righteous. Cain is born by Adam. Cain is wealthy. Cain has industry and all of that. So we're going to look at that shortly.

So the concept of even calling physical things the blessed of God is not even in the Old Testament. We'll come to that shortly. So we now have Abraham, Ishmael. You look at Ishmael. Ishmael also was blessed. Allow me use that phrase now. He had multiple things. It wasn't. By the time you look at the Ishmaelites in the Bible, they didn't. They weren't the beggars on the streets. But then we had Isaac. Isaac therefore was called to inherit the promise. So the issue was the promise of Genesis 12:3 is going to be Isaac, not Ishmael, the one who is born from the dead, not the one born in sin, slavery and bondage. Now it plays out again in Exodus chapter 4, where. Verse22, Israel is my son, even my firstborn. Now that is the Isaac story playing out. Israel is my son, even my firstborn.

So listen carefully, please. Which means that the son is also the one that will come out of bondage in the Exodus. Whoever comes out of the Exodus, as many as are led by the Spirit, they are the sons of God. That is Exodus 4:22. Led out of bondage, led out of mystery. Whereas Ishmael was born of the bond woman, Isaac of the three. So if you are led by the Spirit, you are the son. Where are you being led to? Don't forget the inheritance. So the issue of oyo's is not just natural conception, even though that is implied, it is the inheritance, the air. You are called out of darkness to light, you are led sun. So that is why the concept of Jesus, the son of God has two implications.

Romans 1:3, concerning his son, Jesus Christ, who was made the seed of David according to the flesh, and declared the Son of God with power by the Spirit of holiness. So verse four will be the Abraham parable, and as the Israel Exodus parable. That is why listen to this. In Psalm 2:7, it says, My son, this day have I begotten you. And that is not the incarnation, that is the resurrection. What is echoing there? What's echoing? That isaac, Isaac's echo. This day have I begotten you from the dead, or this day have I begotten you from the clutches of a tyrant. Now, in the New Testament, in our world, or, sorry, in today's world, or in all the world, sorry to say, death will be the tyrant.

So in the resurrection of Jesus will be seen as Israel is my son, my firstborn or model. This is how I will birth sons. So please listen to this. In the resurrection, Jesus is called the firstborn because of the background of bondage, of death, or the background of the resurrection. Your son, your only son, Isaac, the first begotten. So it becomes prototokos. That is, this is the model from darkness to light, from death to life, from Egypt to the promised land. So Jesus the proton or the prototokos, what then is the incarnation? The incarnation has nothing to do with you. That is why I showed you that in the incarnation, John used a very different word, monogenous, to say, this is unique, singularly unique. The incarnation can only happen to God, who became flesh and dwelt among us.

But the resurrection can happen to you and I and Jesus. So the concept of son, when you say son as someone that okay, you. And this is the thing that you know, a lot of you say, God didn't care for children. Why shouldn't this and all that? And he says, so the incarnation. Because what happened in the incarnation, again, is that Jesus became a man, or God became a man. That action is sonship, monogeneous. He became flesh, the word became flesh. John 1:14. And also the triumph over death and sin is sonship, because that is an inheritance. And so you can't understand sonship without studying Abraham and Isaac or the Exodus. It is from the two stories that the concept of sonship is clear. Abraham and Isaac, the father of many nations, then Israel and the Exodus.

So we mustn't use our grammar to explain sonship without this background, which means that to talk about sons, Psalm 2:7, you must have deliverance, exile, a tyrant, an inheritance. All of that will play out when you are talking about a son, An heir. So a son is not a male child, even Though the male child by the history Israel and Egypt was the heir. When you say Israel is my firstborn, the word firstborn will be an Egypt phrase. Egypt phrase where you have Pharaoh firstborn kingdom. So he says my firstborn. Why would you say firstborn? Because we are now in Egypt. We need to use Egypt's illustration. But both the Isaac experience from the dead and then the Israel experience from bondage and slavery is one and the same. We're likely going to come back there as well.

So understanding the parabolic writing of scripture is critical to how you teach it. To know that they reference each other. Exodus references Genesis. Genesis points to Exodus. They all will walk around well if you understand them. So the Exodus will become a parabolic explanation of how we are raised from the dead by the glory of the Father. Romans 6 and 4, how we are led by the Spirit. Romans 8, 14 from 13. We put where he says, if you threw those through the spirit, you put to death the deeds of the body. You are alive. You put to death Romans 6, 3, 4 by the baptism. That's the Exodus through the Red Sea you have dashed by the spirit of the spirit already does that for you. And he uses the unfortunate death of Pharaoh to talk about that. Then where you being led?

To an inheritance where we don't have the spirit of bondage again to Pharaoh. That is not Isaac, that israel in the Exodus, but the spirit of adoption. That's Exodus and also Isaac. Because Isaac wasn't the first child of Abraham, but he is called the firstborn. That is he's put in the air position. Same thing as God chose Israel among the nations. As if Israel is my son, my firstborn. Exodus 4:22. So every time you read son firstborn, Genesis 22 verse 2, thy only son, Exodus 4:22 must come to play at the background of that is Genesis 5. God created man, verse 1, in the likeness of God, made he him. Verse 3. He begat a son in his own likeness after his image and called his name, saith. So the image of the Father is the Son.

Hebrews 1 and 3, Hebrews 1 and 2. Image an imprint. Use the word DNA today. You are right. So the concept of son should not be restricted to the way we think today. It should be a biblical explanation. That's why Paul did his best in Galatians 4:20. Look at the Greco Roman adoption process. Where it's not the way you go to an orphanage and pick up a child today. No, where you place one in the stead of his son and then it's legally done. He says, therefore were children under bondage under the law that is Exodus. At the fullness of time, two places again. Fullness of time. At two instances. Fullness of time. When he says, sarah, that's Sarah. At the appointed time, the Lord will return again and give you his son. At the fullness of time.

Then also at the fullness of time. Genesis 15, where the Amorites were said, after fall, hundred years, I'll come, then get them out. At the fullness of time. God sending his own son. All right. He says, made under the law. Made of a woman to deliver us or to redeem. Sorry. Which is Exodus language. So you have to play that well. So the. The he uses for them to understand what happened. And he says, look, this is what happens in your own culture. Galicia, you are Greco Roman. You have a Greco Roman way of taking a son to be an heir. Take someone, then you adopt him, put him in the place of a son. He said, that's exactly what happened to Isaac. There was Ishmael, but Isaac stood in that place. It happened in Israel, in Egypt. To Israel. Israel is my son.