Thou shalt leave them for the poor. That is, don't eat everything in the pot, you know, leave some. So, I mean, this already shows you that the concept of saying the entire Israel was prosperous is rubbish. Of course, our brothers and sisters in crisis or Christ sorry. Will have twisted many of the nights of the Exodus. Look at another place. Leviticus 23:22. When you reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not make clean readers of the corners of thy field. When thou reapest, neither shalt thou gather thy glean of the harvest. Thou shalt leave them unto the poor and stranger. I am the Lord your God. Deuteronomy 24, Verse 20 and 21. Where you be thy holy tree, thou shalt not go over the bones again. Shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow.

When thou guest the gift of the vineyard, thou shalt nothing afterwards shall be for the stranger, for the violet and the widow. So they were considered. Not also that the tithing laws was not just for the priests. It was to care for those who couldn't take care of themselves. The priest, because he's serving in the temple, the fatherless, the orphans, the widows, and even yourself when you are hungry, you know. So Deuteronomy 15, Verse 7 to 8. If there be poor among you, if there be among you a poor man or one of their brethren, fill up thy gates, the language the Lord thy God gives thee. They shall not. Thou shalt not harden your heart, nor shut down thy head from thy brother, your hand from your brother, you. You know, he says, thou shalt open your hand wide.

Thou shalt learn something for his need that he wants. So, which means there was a consistent instruction to take care of the po. Yeah. Look at another law, Exodus 22:25, which negates many of the Near Eastern laws. If you lend money to any of the good that is poor by thee, thou shalt not be to him as a usurer. Neither shall you lay upon him usury. That means you won't collect interest. If you lend money, you are not going to collect interest. Leviticus 25:36. Sorry, are these suggestions or legislations? If a man have not redeemed it, if he had not an himself be able to redeem it, let him count the years of thy seed thereof, and restore the overplus of the man to whom he sold it, that he may return unto his possession. 36. Sorry.

Take thou no usury of him or increase, but fear thy God that thy brother live with thee. Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury. Usury means interest, nor lend him with habituals for increase. So even the law of Moses accused is better than some of these you are practicing today. What kind of law is that? Why is he collecting it? I mean, the guy comes and lend me, and Mose says you mustn't collect interest. So what is my gain? You know, also in temple worship, Leviticus 5, 7 and 11. If you cannot afford, let's look at it. If he's not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring. For his trespass then he shall commit two total dose. That shows you that Mary and Joseph were poor, or two pigeons.

That's even after the wise men gave them things to go to Egypt, you know, they went to Egypt with their sacks. They came back and could not pay for the dedication of their church. Okay. Of the Lord. One for sin offering, the other for burnt offering, Sabbath to the priest and all that. So it shows that even if they cannot afford the animals used for worship, you know? Then don't forget again. Your debts are cancelled automatically every seven years. Why does he use seven again? Seven in numbers and in days means at the end of the week, the end of the period. And he uses that to say that you see God's finished work in his Son, in his promise, you will not be owing. So Jeremiah 15. Then of course, he says that two things he demands of you.

When you are releasing your slave, or you are not collecting, or servants, or you are collecting interest, he said you must do it willingly from your heart. How he's going to know that, I'm not sure. Theorem 15, verse 10. Thou shalt surely give him, and thy heart shall not be grieved where you give unto him. Because for this thing the Lord thy God shall bless in their works and all that put your hands into that means be a cheerful giver. So these are critical issues, and they are clear distinctions from the days that they lived in 2015. Therefore, Jeremy, chapter 15 will be a guide to the servanthood laws, because it talks a whole lot about treating the poor. And those that don't have the seventh year of release, creditors are let go if a fondant may exact it again.

But what is your brother you release. Verse 3, verse 4. Save when there shall be no poor among you, for the Lord shall bless thee in the land which he gives you obey the Lord your God. Then in verse seven, if there be among you a poor man of your brethren that shall give no, harden your heart. Give to him. In verse nine, beware that there's not a thought in the evil and wicked heart saying, the seventh year, that hand thy eye shall be evil against the poor. Brother, that is, look, the seventh year is almost here. There's no point, you know he gives those warnings. So when you read this entire chapter, for example, you will understand. You know how Moses treated the poor in the laws that he gave the poor were given extremely good conditions to live with everyone.

I would advise you take some time. Verse 1 to verse 18. It shall not seem add unto thee when you send him away from thee free. For he has been worth a double hired servant to thee in serving thee six years. And the Lord thy God that blessed thee in all that you do. That is, he is serving God and serving you. He has already done double. So you must in your heart let him go. Free your heart, let him go. So no doubt this is a total step down from what obtained in their world. Shouting about Rwanda. At some point say, I want to go to Rwanda, that Rwanda is not making aeroplane. Rwanda is not making this one. I told one pastor, I said, and they closed down this number of churches.

I said, yes, that if you lie against the president, they will warn you. So they do travel there and do it. Nigeria is better. Exactly. So you must learn to compare things in their world. You don't come. You don't come 6,000 or many thousand years to say you are talking. How many times did they know you when they were writing the law in their world? This was the. A just society, a more liberal society in their own world. When you look at the historical documents of the Mesopotamian kings, you know, slaves, you discover that yes, they did free slaves. But there was nothing fixed. It was just at their discretion. But by saying that every seven years set people free. What is he trying to do? It's a way of.

It's an economic principle by law that says, look, the poor cannot be serving you forever. So like I said, interpreting the slavery laws, the first thing is changing the world. Slave. I'm still using slave. Now, second thing is to not define it by somebody captured. You know, my. I read the biography of my great grandfather. Who The Campbell of Lagos. How they were taken from. He found out that his own father. No, I said my great grandfather, yes. Found out his own grandfather was captured from somewhere in Elisha. They were Brought to Lagos. They just captured them. Work in one farm, took them to America, took them to Sierra alone. They found their way back. And all of that, you know, lovely bad story. That is not the servant. In Israel you can see that some of the servants are your kinsmen.

They are your brothers. It just means that they are owing you. And so rather than Moses, rather than go to the Hittite law. Let me give you a one. If it's owing me. This is what the Hittite law says I should. This is what the law of my. This is what the law in Egypt said I should apply. Let me give you another law. You know, now you. You can say. You should just say, let go. Walk in love, but let go, let go. Even now that Christ is the end of the law. To everyone that believes some brother will born Christ and face ssu. Even now look how many thousands of years ago where your options? Plenty, Paul. Now say after seven years, sir. By the sixth year, you tell the guy, work extra. Supposed to close that four go.

So Moses, we see where Moses gave laws to restrict that. So at the end of the day the question is, why is Moses amending the laws? That is the law of Christ. At the end of the day you can see that what he is doing here is still the law of Christ. Who is following what I am saying here? Because you have to look at it in their own world. Let me give you an instance. If in your school they say if you are late for lectures, your secondary school now. And then I say, if you are late for lectures, you will cut grass. You will clean all the toilets of the hostel. And you will miss your lunch and your dinner. Then one senior now says, don't worry, all you just do is sweep the floor of my room and that room, okay?

You miss your lunch, but not your dinner. You say, he walked in love. Exactly. But what I said now there was someone telling me that it was in the boarding house signed one day one of my seniors. When I. When. When he was taking his own conflicts and then conflicts. Bread, butter, jam. I said, where? Down the hall? He said, yeah. How would you. You know that was the time like that in the boarding house they gave a law against provisions. You know, Nigeria, we have a real problem. They just gave a law no moisture provision in the boarding house. The reason why that law was made was so that you want to keep it with seniors. So you bring your provision, keep it with the senior and both of you will share it.

So those who made the law, you know, the things in Nigeria they do. Restriction of movement. Stop, stop, stop. It's not to make you. I said, how do you want to free yourself now? But the guy that collected money from you didn't allow you to stay on the road till the next day. He has walked in. Don't quote me badly. So the spirit of it is to protect the poor, right? And to ensure that nobody serves someone forever. If you read Deuteronomy 15 very well, you will see the love law. That is for me the context of the laws of service. It is for me a radical attempt by Moses totally remove the maltreatment of the poor. In fact, in verse four he says, save that there shall be no poor among you, for that is this is the intention. But you know something?

Some of us will say, but why not just totally say no service? God is honest, is not a hypocrite and is a realist. I just gave you in our own world. Don't you see? Brethren, after First Corinthians 6 brethren, churches have you just brought over land before The Bible is 2005. Moses, I'm telling you something people will not be saying. I know that we are in the body of Christ, but this is a registered organization within the laws of the federation. It's true. In fact, a church will even have a lawyer in our world, though after 2000 years of finished work. So if you therefore cannot see the merits of what happened in Moses world, then your application of sincerity and integrity has to be questioned. So the poor is the target. Deuteronomy 15:11 for the poor shall not cease from the land.

Therefore I command you will open your hand wide to your brother, to thy poor and to the so it's not forcing you all right not to have. Now you have an option. Help the poor. Do it from your heart. But if you want to take back your debts by service after seven years, let the guy go. Do you understand? So it is. It is a legislation that is fair. But you have a right to say don't bother. Okay, but even if you are going to collect your debts, he said, if the guy is poor, you can't take interest which in all the laws in all the world written known today in the word of Moses, there was nowhere the poor was not taken care of. Not a single place. Not a single place. Now you know.