But see of this people which the Lord thy God has given thee an inheritance. Thou shalt have alive, save alive, nothing that breathe. But thou shalt utterly destroy them. The Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, the Israelites and Jebusites. As the Lord thy God. Pay attention here. Pay attention to hell I commanded. It appears that. Okay, destroy them then it says in 18 thou they shall teach you not to do after their own abominations what they have done unto their gods. So you should not sin against the Lord your God. So you can see again that the intent is worship. And it doesn't mean to kill. It actually means to bar for the purpose of consecration. So critically, therefore, it means that the word Aram, another synonym of it is aram, does not refer to destruction of everybody living.

It actually has to do with war against those who are the soldiers or the militants or the warriors. So when you look at Joshua 6 and 21, and they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both men and women, young and old, ox and sheep and ass. And with the edge of the sword. This that looks a little bit contradictory. Now that word men and women is found about seven times in Old Testament history and books around Scriptures. Let's see the implication. Joshua 8, 25. So all that felt that day, both men and women were 12,000, even of the men, all of the men of AI 1st Samuel 15:3Amalek. 1St Samuel 22:19. Not the city of the priest smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children, sucklings, oxen, asses, sheep, with the edge of the sword.

Children are mentioned here. Nehemiah 8:2. Ezra, the priest brought the law before the congregation, both of men and women, all that could hear with understanding upon the first day of the seventh month, men and women again. 2Nd Samuel 6:19. Samuel. Six nineteen. And dwelt among all people among the old worlds of Israel, as well to the women as men to everyone. A cake of bread and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of oil. So all the people departed, everyone to his house. Then 2nd Chronicles 16:3 just similar now Notice this. Every time you read this text, you find the word all used. Except in 1 Samuel 22, verse 20. Every time you say the word all. And the word all is the Hebrew word kol, Kol.

Now you notice statements like we captured all cities in the time and destroyed the men, women and children. We left no survival. We destroyed everybody. Chapter three, verse six. Again, so this is another use of words that we must pay attention to. We have said already that yes, the word all was used, but every time it was used, we still had the residue of inhabitants that were not touched. So what it means is that this all had a lot of exceptions. The use of the word all always has exceptions. So this ban or these destructions, the Aram or the Aram had exceptions. You might have to read the story to the end to know whether the oil is everything or was specific. Let us See examples Joshua 6:21, where he mentioned men, women, young and old, cattle and sheep.

Then he said, pay attention, that 12,000 men and women fell. Joshua 8:25. The truth of the matter is, archaeologically in history. Both Jericho and I did not have civilian populations in history. They were military formations. Both Jericho and I, that is Jericho that we speak of. And AII the one we just read now, they never had civilian populations. Jericho and I were military strongholds. Jericho, actually, that is why you have the walls of Jericho. People don't probably understand what it means. Means is a military fortress. It's like a camp of soldiers. So it was used. That wall was used as a defense at junctions of Jerusalem, Bethel and Ophar. Opah is spelled O, R, P H A H, pah. They were like military formations I and Jericho.

So why then the use of men, women, cattle, the language all is another exaggerated term of war. It simply meant they took the city, they took the country, they finished up the nation. It doesn't literally mean that women and children were killed. In fact, the word city in Hebrew is the word ir, which gives us the idea of a specialized formation. So they are like government buildings used for operations. And all of that in one of the ancient materials, particularly the Amana letter A, M, A R, N A written about the 14th century before Christ. It says that whenever Egyptians and the Canaan leaders, when they exchanged letters and stuff like that, they did it through the fortress of the military formations. In other words, the military formations were first before you reached where their populations resided.

So you always had like a fortress before you enter into the city. It's called the gates. And in the Gates you had the military Permissions. For example, you know that David did the same in the second Samuel 5 and 7 where he had Zion. Second Samuel 5 and 7 he took the stronghold of Zion that is the same city of David. So David also had the habit of building a fortress. 1St Chronicles 11:5, 7 2nd Samuel 12:26 the way we have toll gates where you just pay money in their own. It was a city for governance. Governance was put there. The elders and the rulers and the governments will be there. The military formations were there. So every time you see war and you hear the city was run over, it's a military term. It means that they defeated the military.

It doesn't literally mean that children were taken and killed wholesale. And of course, when you study the word kingdom, the Hebrew word melek means doesn't refer to the people there as much as the authorities also there. So archaeologically, like I mentioned and of course reading scriptures well in context you discover that phrase had to do with battle. Battle? Battle between two military formations and not genocide or total cleansing of human beings. Let's look at a typical example. Why do you think that the children of Israel had to go around the wall of Jericho and did it seven times on the same day? Oftentimes people think they were just there praising God and worshipping. We'll see that as we proceed. Jericho, therefore, historically speaking, let me. I have something here. Jericho, therefore was a small settlement of maybe hundred or less than soldiers.

That is why they could circle it seven times and then do battle the same day. If it was like a whole city as big as Lagos, can you do it once? So it was a military formation that they were sucking. So therefore, then again, the use of the word thousands. I must mention this in the Hebrew. The latter day language now uses thousands the way we do. The word is the Hebrew word Eleph E, L E P H. It doesn't exactly refer to numbers. Some old Hebrew dictionaries have it as a unit or a squad. Sometimes 10 people can be called thousand. A thousand shall fall at thy side. 10,000 Exactly refers to a unit of the army. So it's not a thousand, literally speaking. And I said that because at that time the use of thousand had not.

Just like you'll find millions in the Bible when it was translated into Greek, they didn't have millions to use. By the time the Bible was brought into the Septuagint, thousands were already being used. So it was used to talk about a number of people, legion, for example. So the word thousands is just a few. Maybe Today maybe a battalion, two or three like that. So Jericho was what it was, which is a military formation. That means everyone that was killed were soldiers. It's what you call like a military outpost which means that non combatant people weren't found there, Maybe kings, maybe those in authority. But basically it wasn't just entering into people's houses and killing the children. No. Let me see another funny one I was thinking about here. So those are things that will require us to be careful. It's.

We said today is a war justified? We said yes. A military battle, of course, yes. So we look at it and say well, in the context of their day, the walls of Jericho is like going to. There's no. Is it still as functional northern barracks, but that one is even the center of the city. They will have entered very well the way they did. It was at the Zion, for example, was David's fortress where held his kingdom, where he had his soldiers, his military strength and all of that. So that's what Jericho was like. So therefore it will mean that the destruction of the Amalekites as well done by Saw was not the women and the children. It was basically taking out the military commanders, etc. Etc. So men and women is a short form of saying we took the whole place.

I mismentioned this part of the abrasion and Hebrew language is to. When I say, for example, if Jesus spoke about you can't enter into a strong man's house except you bind the strong man, then you spoil his goods. Now the person you bound is the strong man, but what you spoil are his goods. So when you kill the strong man, for example, you now say you've taken the children, you've taken the women, it's like you've taken them with him. So it's a language of conquest, not of cleansing. Are we making sense? So it's not a language of annihilation. Nope. Therefore, just like the Amalekites, Jericho was like a military fortress. And that's what happened in that instance. Amen. He's helping us. So we must first of all get the grammar. If you don't get the grammar and the context.

So it's the military, the formations that were at Jericho or like the, the way you have to enter the city. And I think that somehow the New Testament Greek will call it. That's why we have the gates of hell. You understand? The gates of hell should not prevail. You know, the Septuagint puts it in this format, the gates of Hell should not prevail. And then you wonder gates. In your own mind you are thinking gates. In fact, if you get to civilized country, they don't use gates. So but the gates will mean the fortresses. So the gates of the place of the dead will not prevail against it. So now imagine a city having gates. The gates are not just edifices, they have soldiers.

So when he says the gates of hell should not prevail against it, that takes you back to the cryptic imagery of the wars of the Old Testament where it was a combatant war, not war against humanity. Are we making sense now? This leads us to another important personality within the story of the conquest, and that is Rahab. Rahab, the allotment. In Joshua, chapter two. Are we not systematically studying Joshua like this? It just makes it easier when we get there, right? Because no matter how much of the New Testament you understand, if you get to these instances, just saying, well, you know, it's the Old Testament, they are not born again, you know, might not suffice. And you know, we are in a world where people are asking questions. Your children are going to ask you.

You know, when were young, were not giving room to even ask. If you say, but daddy, why would God ask them to level the place is a slap that will make you know why you want to start serving the devil at this age. Because they also, they have the answers. We must rise up to the task. Amen. Okay, so now comes to Rahab, a slightly controversial figure because of a whole lot of, you know, ideas behind her. But let's see Joshua too. Joshua, the son of nun sent out. I know your mind is so pure, but there's something you are probably didn't see out of shooting two men to spy, secretly saying, go view the land, even Jericho. And they went and came into an allot house named Rehab and lodged there.

Your mind is so pure that you are not thinking how a non believer will think. Two men of God went to lodge in the house of a prostitute. That's not how tritual, you know, emoji. But the truth is historically speaking and we need to understand that in the fortresses they used to have what they call Tavans, law inns. That is when you have those military fortresses, you have inns there. And they will now have maybe women, non combatant people who will keep those inns for travelers, messengers. The Umurabi tradition and code tells us that in the Near Eastern tradition they had female innkeepers. So they had this law, the Murabi code had this law. Let me read it for you.

If conspirators against the city meet in the house of a female tavern keeper, Tavan is spelled T A V E R N. And these conspirators are not captured and delivered to the courts. The tavern keeper shall be put to death. So you can imagine what she did. If there's a discovery of conspirators and the tavern keeper, like somebody who has a guest house, if she keeps them from these authorities, the result is death. So it's not just that she was in Buju. Buju and then they didn't get the guys and they left her. No, what she did was to put her life at risk, you know, eventually now. So the truth is those things were common in those days, even among the Hittites.