If I say I would destroy all of you, I will destroy all of you. Then you now see that it was an enemy territory that came to do the work today in today's world, in Paul's world, I'll write it like this. And you will be destroyed because you have not accepted my offer of deliverance. Do you understand that? I brought it into Paul's world and you will be destroyed. If I now bring it in today's world, I'll just say your stubbornness will destroy you or your stupidity. You know, imagine a world after. Now I have simply brought it home. So they were not contradicting each other. It simply meant that the New Testament writers separated light from darkness. The Old Testament, because of their culture, did not. Whether we like it or not, light and darkness coexist in the world.

Not in the same place, but in the actions of men. The Hebrew culture left it that way. Look at a few things that I want us to look at. Like I said, this is an excerpt of a common book. Now, there was a very uniqueness in the Semitic linguistics. That is what we call the braism, where the language had its own peculiarities. For example, we have what we call in today's language called loan words. Loan words are words that are borrowed from another culture. I'll give you one. When we say something like cherubim and seraphim or seraphim, it is portrayed historically as a winged child. Winged child. When you say Torah. Torah is not a spiritual word. It simply means sacred writings, includes traditions, instructions, guidelines, and that is what is now called scriptures. Graphic, same thing as cherub winchild.

So in translations, you are faced with bringing something of another world to yours, sometimes retaining it the way it is. A key thing in the Ibraism culture is the heavy use of idiomatic constructions and expression. In the day you eat of it, you will die. Genesis 2, 16, 17 in the literal Hebrew, it means in dying you shall die. It's like having two things said in one single statement. It's like in dying you will die. Yet the translation says, in the day you eat up, you will die. But it's actually an emphatic use of death. Genesis 2, 16, 17. Let me just say a few things so that there are so the heavy use of metonymy, where you name a part of a whole for a part of the whole, or the whole for a part. Metonymy is heavily used in the Hebrew culture.

When you say he came, it could just mean that they came. When you say Shola is there, it just means that since you already know Shola has four friends, Shola and his four friends were there. And sometimes you mention a part of an activity who didn't play a major role. You know something out of reverence, respect, or title. Metonymy. Also the terms of the tenses. But today we have past, present, future, same thing happened there then. And you have the imperfect tenses, the perfect tenses, all of that, but critically will be the cognitive tenses. A cognitive tense is when you know actions based on perception, mental reasoning or intellect. And it is not what you did. Like a volitive tense where you expressly state your will, I will do it.

So in other words, and a few other things, so that you have causative verbs, permissive verbs, implied verbs are also present. You have the rhetoric. A very key example is the hardening of Pharaoh's heart. That will solve. Like we mentioned the other day, okay, Just like when is the day eat of eating, dying, you will die. And then the same Genesis 3 said, the Lord God sent Abraham and Eve out of the garden. That is Hebraism. The Lord God did not send them out. Sin did. Do you get it? But sin affects God, as affects us. So he is mentioned a part of a whole. Look at the hardening of Pharaoh's heart. In Exodus 4:21, I will harden his heart. In Exodus 7:13, he hardened Pharaoh's heart. In Exodus 7:22, Pharaoh's heart was hardened. Exodus 8:15, Pharaoh himself, he hardened his heart.

Exodus 9:12, the Lord hardened the heart of Pharaoh. So is it complicated? No, it's not. First and foremost, notice that the term Satan or the accuser wasn't given as much mention. And the hardening of Pharaoh's heart simply means he disobeyed. So if he disobeyed in Exodus 8:15, Exodus 10:3. The issue is that God's hardening of Pharaoh's heart is a passive term. It was not active. What he simply did in that hardening was to talk to Pharaoh, and Pharaoh rebelled against him. That is quite heavy Hebraism. God's inability to convince Pharaoh is called the hardening of Pharaoh's heart. So the translator will be faced with this task of taking on himself the capacity or the job of sorting out the grammar. He must sort the grammar in today's world. So look at yourself on the pulpit, explaining what looks complex.

It's not complex to the Hebrew man, but it is complex to you because of your world. But then, like we said, just by reading it in context, and that's how Jesus, you know, lambasted the Pharisees for have you not read. That is, if you had read this thing from the beginning, you will know that. And in Matthew 9, 8, how did he resolve the issue? Have you not read at the beginning? Historically, contextually and grammatically? Historically, contextually and then grammatically. So we are faced with the same thing in our world. That looks easy because we are talking about the Old Testament. And you say we've got it figured out in the epistles. I don't think so. There is also the need for you and I.

That's the job of a teacher, to be the Daskalos, the ability to communicate the doctrine today's man in today's world without compromising the integrity of the world. This is where I am cross with some translations. I think in bringing it to this world, they totally abrogate theology. And it's a very, very, very thin line. How can I bring you to this world? Because communication must not take the place of the information. I'm trying to make it easy to you to hear it. At the end of the day, the very information is lost. So don't. Don't place above the information. You must first of all understand the information. And when you are communicating, endeavor to make sure the information is retained in its integrity. And I'll just add this. It's like writing. Writing is different from speaking.

Writing must be as formal as possible so that it will take in all the nuances, suppress it, and not in any way extricate the exact information you want to pass across. Don't be verbose. For example, look at the silent nature by which sex is mentioned. It is never detailed. It is never. Even though in oral tradition you can be detailed, but it is never detailed. It is said in very quick, brief, yet clear terms. And so in Writing too. You must employ the same tools. I said to some of you, ensure you don't write the way you talk. Don't write the way you talk, rather talk from what you wrote. So we have a huge task and then we invalided that. The New Testament. The New Testament background is the Old Testament.

Every participant in the church services, in the church meetings, what they had before them was Hebrew Bible. If that is the case, then that means that if we are not going to lose the information, what we must always have before us is the Hebrew Bible. So let me throw a dice at you, or a card or something at you. It means therefore, that my grasp of the epistles. All right. Is proportional or proportionate to my grasp of the Old Testament. I cannot understand the New Testament if I do not understand the Old Testament. Like I emphasized yesterday, to use words of the New Testament without the narrative the Old Testament. If Paul stands up now and he's in Rome or he's in Corinth and he says, you have been redeemed, you know, he won't.

He's not going to speak in the few words in his letters, he will now use the narrative of Egypt. Explain it. So while he's using a polytron neutron, lutrosis and polutrosis, which is in their world, what he is talking about is the Exodus. So while he is using commercial terms, what he is narrating is the Exodus. So let me ask you, is it possible for him to use Apollo tropes, Apollo Lutron, without explaining bondage and slave. Slave trade? No. Let me add more. Could he ever use the word redemption without the king's man Redeemer? No. So if I am all about the epistles, I disconnect from the epistles. So that means that there was no contradiction in the Old Testament. In the New. We said yesterday, they rise or fall together. They rise or fall together.

I have a few things I wanted to show us. If I don't do it today, I didn't exactly highlight it because I thought it was a whole document about the Egypt mode of education. I wanted us to explore the mind of Moses because I need to see his mind. Because there was no temple in Genesis, so heaven and earth is Genesis. But he drew the picture of heaven and earth using. Now, in the worship of the Egyptians, they brought their gods to meet with them in the tabernacle. So he simply said, no, this is God's heaven and earth. And then he created the picture using a physical building. And all God will do in the process became customs and traditions. So I want to go into his mind to see his mode of communication was Egypt.

But what is communicating is the promise of Genesis, which was delivered to them in Ibraism. Let me see how you understand that. So I must cross that barrier with Moses. So our job will be to be able to read the Old Testament very well. The inability of that will cause grief for our audience. And one thing I want us to do in this study is I want you to actually appreciate this. And, you know, I want to say it in another word, but appreciate the reason for intense and diligent study of the Scriptures. You can see why teaching wasn't handed over to just anybody. It wasn't. It's not a frivolous task. It's not something that you just get up and today, you know, people just get up, just write a book and all that. Just put something. How to. How to. How to.

I don't know what to say again. How to. How to know your zero hour. Something like that. You thought that was what they sat down in the wilderness to hear day and night? It's basically theology. Now look at Deuteronomy, chapter 8, 18. Sorry. Again. Every time I read Deuteronomy, I must refer to Genesis through to Leviticus, numbers, right? Come on. I have. I have to. Verse 14. You can start from 10. Thou shalt not be found among you one that makes his son his daughter, to pass through fire and all that. Verse 12. Because of these abominations, the Lord thy God doth drive them out from before thee. Thou shalt be perfect before the Lord thy God. For these nations which thou shalt possess hearkened unto observers of times undeviners.

But as for thee, the Lord thy God has not suffered thee to so do, which means he has not allowed you to do it. Now let me ask you of everything you've seen here. How many things did God tell Israel I did not do almost everything. So everything in the Genesis, truth or doctrine, they disobeyed it. So we are going to be faced with disobedient people. And because of that, Moses will have to resort to the basest examples. Illustrations like Jesus mentioned the use of parables. He said, because sin they can't see here and they cannot hear. So he had to borrow a lot of illustrations. Okay, look at this. So imagine Moses, he has to use idolatry illustrations for them, Because that is what they knew and that is what they were doing.

So therefore it becomes vital for us to know what did God want? God did not want them to worship idols why it was for their sake, because the worship of idols had its implications. So my ability to look at the permissive, don't forget, is not permissive. Will is permissive tenses where I see what God did not want. The use of language. The bad part is that we have come to be confronted with theology that is not Bible theology based on a misuse of language. That's what we have, the Calvinist theories or the Reformed theology. And I will not in any way spare them at all in this series just like we did in so great salvation. And therefore we looked at and I want you to understand, like I said, transitions are informed by people's theologies, books are and all of that.