And shed innocent blood and the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrifice to those idols of Canaan. And the land was polluted with blood. First were they defiled with their own works and went a whoring with their own inventions. So it wasn't a war of conquering men, it was a war of conquering idols. Let me see if you understand that one. But on the surface, what you are going to read will be physical battles. But the why, which is what we said is critical. The why is about idol worship. And don't forget that Israel was meant to do this all over the world. This is why today people still interpret it that way. And they still believe that the strongest army israel, etc. Etc. Etc. That one day Israel is going to win everybody. And all of that.

When that doesn't work, they say every general of the US army is an Israeli. If you understand the context and then you understand the language, you will read your Bible upside down that way. So we need to identify the crucial areas. We'll just take that. Take a short break. The crucial areas here for us would be, you know, we have a background. Hebrews 11 says they wrought righteousness. Right. Hebrews 11 says that they subdued kingdoms and put armies to flight. Hebrews 11 doesn't say they killed people. Interesting. So. But people were killed. So the substance of things hoped for, which is God promised Abraham a land whose builder and maker is God, which is there's no idol worship, no whoring, no, no sin, no flesh, no demon, no selfishness and all of that. So that's what God promised Abraham.

The spirit, the land of the spirit, the walk of the Spirit. And it's in view of that the wars were fought and Canaan will be call it a prototype, like the sender for everything to happen, Canaan that become Jerusalem, etc. Etc. It therefore means that what we have in the walls is a cryptic imagery of what is the reality today, the preaching of the Gospel. Shadows are never perfect and whatever is the prefigure will never be perfect. Just like the ark, just like the animals and all that. Just like Isaac, just like this. It would never be perfect because that is what is meant to be. That means that the walls, just like the ark, just like the temple. Let me, let me take you back a little bit because it's vital to note this. Why did Moses build a tabernacle?

Because that's what they did in Egypt. Why did Moses create the holiest of all? In fact, I'll probably explore this later in history and proper archaeology. The format of the temple was first found in Egypt. The earliest of all the issue of priesthood and all of that priesthood is Gentile. The first priest we find in scripture. Yes, you could go earlier on, but the first known priest we find in Scriptures, Melchizedek, which again is a gentile priesthood, kingdoms, etc. Etc. So Moses is a guy who went to university, I guess. What did they worship idols in Lagos. And he learned about idols, he understood worship, he lived in the house of Pharaoh. But he knows that idol worship came because men twisted the knowledge of God. So he's saying what was twisted here. He wants to represent Jehovah to the people.

And what is he going to use? God will have to work with it. He will have to use human made temples. That's why the writer of Hebrews warns you early Hebrews 8. Five, when he was about to build the temple, God told him according to pattern. Why? Because the knowledge he had was idol worship. It had to be according to pattern, according to what Jesus will do. So now let's look up and ask a few questions. Look up, guys, look up. Today if anybody goes into a house to say God is There and then puts any images and vows. What do you call it? Idol worship. How come it wasn't called idol worship then? Because of the why. So it's the why. There's a white stone. But today Jesus has come.

You have the word, you have the revealed scriptures that will be idol worship. Everything Moses gave them as instruments of worship. Paul calls them today commandments of men and idol worship. Now, I'm giving you this background before we look at the specifics of the war. The truth is, I don't want to use the word God is helpless. But that's just what he had to do. God did not initiate conquest as a means of settling disputes among humanity. Humanity did that themselves. God will have to make do with what was available. So I say, but why would God make use of that? Well, God used Abraham, who was not the cleanest of men available. I don't think he was the best of men. God used Noah. So God will use what was sinful was. So I trust God to cross this barrier.

Well, so the truth is, looking at the temple, I Paul said, left the walls to go to worship. Okay, let's look at worship. How would you explain worship to a people that came out of Israel, Egypt? We'll have to build a tabernacle, put an ark there. Things they could relate with if you tell them to take over the whole world for Jehovah so that everyone will worship Yahweh. How do you enter a land without war? That's the way they entered land in their world. 1, 2. How do you do that without putting down the idols? That's what you are going to have to do. So if we read it in their own world and day and age, then our interpretation of the wars will make a lot of sense. You following this? Look at Abraham. Abraham goes in Genesis 13.

He goes to rescue his brother, son by the name of lot. Genesis 14. He doesn't come out smelling of roses. He comes out with POWs, prisoners of war. We're not told the details of what had happened. You didn't matter. I don't think he went there and simply just said, leave him alone and cut these guys. I think some bloodshed must have happened. Bible is silent on it, but you are left to think through it. He comes back and pay attention. He gives a tenth of it to the kings. Hear me? Tithing wasn't first a God instruction. It was a man practice that was used to honor kings and nobles and deities. And Abraham does it to the priests of Yahweh. And Moses says, see what Your father did. That's what you are going to do to Almighty God.

A Gentile practice became a Jewish practice. And then today in Christ Jesus, we understand the principle of honor. Who's following what I'm saying here? So it's about the context. Get the grammar right, get the context right, then we come back to our world. What does this mean today? It means to cast down every imagination, to bring every thought to the obedience of Christ. I must mention this because we're going to exploit that. This wrong interpretation was why we had the Crusades. Many of you don't know what a crusade is. Crusade literally actually was used by Christian fighters to kill people. With the advent of, you know, establishing Christianity in nations. Crusade simply means getting there, kill people and then establish Christianity. Why? Because they wrongly interpreted this text. So we must get it right in the way and manner that they are viewed.

So which means that the goal is more. Let me use the word religious. We have seen that much of the canaanites remained. Joshua 16:6. Sorry. 15:63, Joshua 16:10, Joshua 17:12, Joshua 17:13. Judges chapter 1 and verse 19, Judges 1 and 19 then drive them out. Judges 1:21, Judges 1:27:35. The Amorites were certified would dwell in Mount Eris, in Hagar, in Chalabim. Yet the land, the hand of the house of Joseph, prevailed and they became tributaries. In other words, they made them slaves. So eventually they made them slaves and they made them stop idol worship. In, in some past leaders, they were mingled in idol worship, etc. Etc. So the truth is we will be dishonest if we just read the war conquest and ignore why the war took place. Let's review a few things because it's a very sensitive part of scripture study.

I don't want you to make assumptions. The war was already part of the world. Wars are the ways you enter into a land. Either you are made a slave, Joseph's case, or you enter by war. Abraham's case and lot. Genesis 14 is an example. That's just the way it is. Territories were claimed by war and conquest. Check all the histories of humanity. I heard one Chinese material as well that traced it up to Genesis chapter five. And it was clear that the world was built on wars. That means when Romans 5:12 tells you sin entered into the world and death by sin. Death reigned upon all, for all had sinned before the law. Sin was in the world. But sin was not imputed when there was no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses over them. That not sin.

You need to realize that and within that tyrannical rule of the reign of death, God's working, God is worshipped, God is believed. Faith is still the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. So you will learn to first of all understand the what very well and look at the why. Is that clear so critically there? 4. We must see the wisdom of God walking through the vagaries, the inabilities, the inefficiencies, the, as you call it, the sinful dispositions of man. Go and possess the land. Then you find out, how do I possess the land? Today they call you to go and possess the land. You think what it means is to preach because in your world, men don't take over lands by war, not anymore, though some still twist it.

We possess the land for them, mean to take over government. They are just as daft as expected. That's not what it means. So Israel failed eventually, because even up to the time of Jesus, there was idol worship in Paul. So we therefore must not just do a surface reading of these things, we must go beyond the surface and read the texts adequately and in their world. So let's just repeat a few things. So we therefore say that to utterly destroy is not a literal language, right? Everything that breathes is not a literal language. To take over the whole place is not a literal language. It was more of infiltrate, stop idol worship, let them worship Jehovah and all of that. So put it down. The bigger picture, therefore, is not the conquest.

The bigger picture is more of engaging the culture and the idol worship and the religion for the service of God. So that's critical to know the why and understand the what in their world. But the why in the context of the whole Bible will be the way to view the worlds. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/