So if you are a Christian there. Which part of scripture. Let me leave this controversial area. I beg, I don't want trouble. But the point is that we need to accept their world first and know that in the Near Eastern, of course, what we have read so far by Near Eastern, how do you think the marriages will look like? I'm sure they were not doing honeymoon. And Moses now insisted that the way they were when they married, you know, the trade off, they didn't marry. Moses said, if you are married that you stay one year with your wife. One year. Don't go to war. That's where people go honeymoon from. Don't go to his one year, you know, and he didn't do that. So like we said, you know, the truth is that the ideal is Adam and Eve.

I don't know how ideal is because they ate the fruit. So the truth is, in that time we must understand their culture, just like today. So the concept of the equality of women and men must be understood within that time. Now by calling our husband Lord. Genesis 18:12, you have to understand their time. That was how. But then look at the concept of having said that she still was the one who gave the husband a slave to have sex with and have a child, you know, and she was still the one that said, you know what? You know what. You brought her. I'm saying you should take her away. Those ones who they overstayed their stupidity. They didn't know who they were. You are not mocking, you know, they say sitting room, you are sitting in the middle. What's wrong with you?

They said, you know what today. But you know, there's a lot of things that happened there. I said, listen to your wife. And I sent her away. And right there he said he protected Eggar and the child and blessed. That doesn't sit well. Shall he bless them? You see that even today, if you are going to go to the core of Ishmael, that's where you go to do Dubai, Saudi Arabia have you Ishmael. And they are born again Ishmaelites and they are hellish Israelites. So it works both ways, depending on the context. So you have that you also see in their culture. Look at how Abimelek just took her. Obafe just took serious. I like that girl. Bring her. I remember one person, remember the ministry I took to my father's palace. My father was not joking. No, no. Was not my dad.

I was saying that. They not leaving this palace. Say pastor said Oba. Oba wants to marry you. I said who dare do that now you will go to jail. You are your crown in our own world. And Oba today is an employee of the government. In fact, local government. See what I need a Kano. That guy read too much of history. He didn't know in his own world. It's just one letter. You are gone. So look at Abimelech just said give me that baby. I have phrases like sheriff, boy is son for Abraham. People say what do you mean by boy Son for he's our child. Have you ever seen feminist? There was even one recently that I wrote something two days ago. He said they should ban pregnancy. Now why should a woman as a.

What is this nonsense now why should a woman. You know, because you know, my. My final year project was on women rights. I read some things I can't repeat in the sense of human rights. So. But then again we have to tackle these issues as they come. So how would you resolve those issues? And don't forget that you're going to have people in children's church. These kids rethinks they're going to have children also who are girls, boys. And even today people have children say male or female? You have bouncing baby boy. God sees my heart. I haven't asked that question in many years. I think it's one of the most stupid questions. I say boy or girl? I said both. Say twins. No boy or girl, which one is not a child? You get the point.

So you have that kind of thing even till today, whether he's here. Do you know how many things they battle in Europe? So there is something about the fallen world that likes oppression. They talk about the fallen world that likes to oppress. But when you look at the body of scriptures you will still find. Now what I've always said over the years and I've said it since the middle 90s, that yes, we can't use the scriptures to validate non involvement of women in ministry. But there's a point I was almost agreeing to the fact that women should not Pastor almost agreeing to that because I just felt okay because the first Corinthians 3, that one Timothy 3 just. It just didn't sink because my daughter said a husband or one wife, you have already reduced it to a woman can't handle this one.

Then first Timothy 2, then the way I just said well, maybe she can do other ministry gifts, but not pastoring. I couldn't cross that boundary, you know. But years ago one thing I knew was I knew we can't use the scriptures to validate a woman not being in the ministry or being in the ministry. But we can see scriptures on the. Should I say the seeming unstable history where you can't see a consistent pattern of women in the work of the ministry, particularly in leadership. So that would have bothered me years ago, but not anymore that it is a societal thing. Even today you can point to ministers that really will give people when they see a woman preaching, there's an attitude that goes like. And I also say to women, I mean I'll say this because I know this as a fact.

When a woman gets a mic like this, I'm saying this for 90%. I don't know why. Okay, very fast. Shouting Relax. It's as though there is already a pressure to say I can say this thing. Cool down. I'm saying this is me. I'm talking. I know what I'm saying. Cool down. There are very few times you see women teach easily. The Bible says. The Bible says so usually they think in our own phraseology they are preachers but not teachers. What do you think is societal? Relax. Maybe you feel that if you are slow, but it's not true. So it's something that has to be overcome. If you look at the world, it will be hypocritical for us to look at the world of the Near Eastern, ancient Near Eastern and think that oh, that was it. But we can still see it today.

Imagine a John MacArthur, a prominent face. He didn't just say women cannot pastor. He said women who are trying to be. They are arrogant. Anyone who's trying to be a leader anywhere in any sphere. What's wrong with this old man? That, that's not. He doesn't care what people think. Oh it does. A biblical rule and all that. And the arrogance of Calvinism is that they don't know how 0 they are sorry to say. What is this? I know that they fight all that, but this is in this world, in today's world. Has there been a woman governor in Nigeria before? No, his deputy governor. What has changed? Nothing until today. Has there been a woman vice president? No. I know all these other birthday parties put women as vice president.

As we have, you know, we have party, have birthday party, your party, Jerry's party. So all those joking parties, you don't see one girl that just met university to years ago says he's a vice presidential candidate. Is this to apply for a visa. Is there a woman that is a chairman of a political party? Even the woman that tried to be a speaker of the House of Rep. They just found something in her leg. So I'm forced to say that even with us here, men, we have a sin nature. Yeah. That presupposes that there's just something about somebody was saying even from nature. That's why you don't carry pregnancy. A woman is second is a thing of glory. That that is what God has placed. Those are sovereignty people. You are very queer.

But the truth is it is a fact of human existence that one of the things sin has done is a distortion in God's plan. And so psychologically we begin to view the woman in that light. Are we correct? I doubt it. Because from scripture, the Bible is very loud on equality. Let's run through a few texts. Genesis 1:27. Male and female created in them. Genesis 2:24. Shall a man leave his father. Watch that. And his mother. Father and his mother. And cleave to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh. Exodus 20:12. Honor your Father and your mother, that your days may be long. Leviticus 19:3. Every one of you shall reva your father, his mother and his father. He puts mother first before Father. Proverbs 6:20. My son, observe, don't forget. Proverbs is the teaching of the law of Moses.

My son, observe the commandment of your father, and do not forsake the teaching of your mother. Proverbs 18:22. He who finds a wife a good thing. This is good from the Lord. Proverbs 19:26. He who assaults his father and drives his mother away is a shameful and Disgraceful Son. Proverbs 23:22. Listen to your father who begat you. Do not despise your mother when she's old. Proverbs 23:25. Let your Father, and let your mother be glad, and let her rejoice who gave birth to you, Sons of Solomon 6:3. I am my beloved, and my beloved is mine. So we do have a lot of other texts like that. I'll probably show us on Tuesday. Texts that show that there's an equality father and mother. Of course, historically speaking, too, there was. Look at the book of Genesis.

We have women playing a major role, whether it's Eve. All right, a major role. You have also Sarah, Rebecca, Rachel in Exodus, you have Miriam. Then of course you have Esther. And of course you come to the New Testament. You have Deborah. Pardon me, you have the New Testament. And you also have a lot of Other characters, is it not too loud? Yes, but that is the influence of the people, patriarchy of the world. It is not God's word. Even negatively, we have women seen as being powerful. Equally, there's. I've mentioned Sarah, the one about a guy. A guy is also a character in scripture. Rebecca, Rachel, Leah, Hamah. We have the midwives of Exodus 1 who preserved the lives of the children. And of course you have the princess of Egypt who took care of Moses.

Miriam, you have Jethro's seven daughters, Zipporah, Moses, wife. They made comments. They were not quiet. They spoke. They said things that we will not address theologically today. We have the daughters of the Zelopidad, numbers 27. We'll refer to that on Tuesday, where Moses stepped down the inheritance laws because of them showing you that this is about justice. Numbers 27. We have Deborah, Ruth, Naomi, Abigail. We will have Bathsheba. We don't like her, but she's powerful. We have Delilah. So we do have the. Just like we have powerful men, negative and positively. We are also. Women were powerful leadership who caused things to happen. So theologically, the woman was not presented as weak, either positively or negatively. There's no doctrine to sustain that. And if you look up Paul in Romans 9, of course, in Romans 4 mentioned Sarah by the side.

But Romans 9 mentioned the women, mentioned Sarah, then mentioned rebecca in romans 9. And in romans 16 had this list of women and Luke equally, you know, in Luke 10, when he spoke about Mary and Martha, Mary that sat at the feet of Jesus or John 4. So there was a John 20, John 21, John 20. Sorry. Very markedly, you see a deliberate attempt to highlight the role of women ministry around Jesus. It wasn't done. It was done systematically. Yet again, don't forget, we cannot rule out the fact that their world played a part. A falling world, just like Nigeria, just like Europe, just like Africa. It will play a role. Now, the negative part of it is where there is now an attempt by women, you know, to show independence of thoughts. And so you begin to hear stupid things.

And this has given rise to lesbianism, homosexuality, gay rights, all sorts of very queer and odd things. Whilst polygamy is seen in Scripture, polyandry is not. While God, like he does to culture, will be said to, well, not endorse or refute polygamy. Polyandry is outrightly a no. But you find this. Women cry, say, no, we can have this, we can do this, we can do that. A lot of things, you know, they come in. In that light. We also have different things like, you know, you don't have to have carry the woman child in your womb. You can do this, you know, all sorts of very queer things. Moving from one extreme to a worse one. Is the scripture silent on women ministry? No, mankind, man's culture. But the scriptures do not, whether it is Genesis or the epistles or the four Gospels.