If this is what you have done, you have fulfilled the law. So in other words, right in the system of the Old Testament there was a very, very clear dichotomy that this one, yes, can be altered. Look at one. Numbers 27. Please remind me of the scriptures I wanted to get for us on the exile. Remind me maybe tomorrow on Monday. Numbers 27, Verse 1 to 11. You could just read that where it was. The law was actually altered because of the daughters of Zelo Fared. And he says, okay. They said, look, they came to Say our Father, verse three, died in the wilderness. It was not in the company of them that gathered themselves together against the Lord coming to Korah, but that his own sin and had no sons.

Why should the name of our father be done away from among his family? Because he had no son. Give unto us a possibility possession among the brethren of our Father. Then David, I mean Moses, brought their course before the Lord. The Lord spoke to him, okay. Thou shalt surely give them a possession of inheritance among their father's brethren, and shall cause inheritance of their fathers to pass on to them. And shall speak on the children of Israel, saying, if a man die and have no son, then you shall cause his inheritance to pass to his daughter. And if he has no daughter, he shall give his inheritance unto his brethren. If he has no brethren, he shall give his inheritance to his father's brethren. If his father have no brethren. That's serious.

Shall give his inherent to his king's man that is next to his family and shall possess it shall bear the children of e. Israel started your judgment as so that was altered. So that means it was alterable. Now why was that inheritance law passed at all? Because there was an inheritance law prevalent already in their land. So Moses simply adopted, okay, now that is Egypt, this is us. So he made distinction here and there. He didn't make a wholesale distinction. A little here, a little there, added this. So much of what you found them doing were things that were already done in Egypt and other nations of the world. However, they had a distinct practice from those nations. Yet the prophets now announced, Jeremiah 31:33, there will be a new covenant, Ezekiel 36:26,27 and that covenant will happen in our hearts.

He said, I'll write it in their hearts, in their minds. So it is clear that it was a gradual progression. I was going to talk about this, but maybe I should just brush over it. Does God not introduce favoritism by choosing Israel? No, not at all. In fact, he chose Israel so that every nation will not adopt his own God. We'll watch that later. You notice that. Why did he choose Israel? Basically, Deuteronomy 65 and Jeremy 10:20 was to love him, to believe in him. And in the Genesis account, we have already found Gentiles, non Jews already worshipped him and loved him. Yet to show you that there's no favoritism, he says, if you don't believe me, you will equally be destroyed.

I will have Deuteronomy 28, 1568, Joshua 23, verse 1 to 16 already shows that, hey, If Israel went the way of those who don't believe God, the same thing will happen to them. So folks that were rescued from Egypt and passed through the Red Sea eventually perished in the wilderness. So that means there was no patriotism. You believe you are saved, you don't believe you are damned. So why Israel? Israel then becomes for us the nation. God will walk his redemptive plan. That's all. It's not favoritism, it's just a redemptive plan where the Messiah will come from. Just as simple as that. So there's nothing in choosing Israel where God creates ethnocentricism? No. If he had done that means there will be partiality. Disobedience had its cause whether you are in Israel or not.

That is why the consequence of disobedience happened both to the non Jew and then to the Jew. It happened both ways. So in no way was there a bias to an ethnic race at all. That should be. Therefore we've said, and you need to add this. When John 1:17 says the law was given by Moses, grace and truth came by Jesus, we work it out and repeat what we said earlier, that the context of the law is the grace of God. The content of Exodus and Leviticus number Deuteronomy is the book of Genesis and Genesis is the grace of God. So laws were thus given because the grace of God had been given. Don't forget again we said that God therefore has no special not at all. I know Jews don't like this, but he doesn't have.

In Acts 17:27, Paul says, God is not far from every one of us, whether he is Jew or Gentile. Amos 9, 7. Amos, chapter nine, verse seven. Are you not as the children of Ethiopians? Ethiopians used for Africans as unto me, O children of Israel, said the Lord. Have I not brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt? And the Philistines from Caphtor and the Syrians from captivity here? So you can see that he says, look, you're not just like the Ethiopians. That's Africans. I told you before. It's interesting to say that some people from Europe brought the gospel to Africa. That is an absolute nonsense. It's not true. Maybe at some points when Africa went into idolatry. Yes, but there was God before idolatry, as simple as that.

So the concept of the gospel not getting to a place is in your imagination. God remains God over all of us. Amen. I told you. What if those people don't hear the gospel? It's not a question in Scripture. So don't answer it. It's a question created by cynics and I'm not one. Are you? So Galatians 4:4 says, Therefore at the fullness of time, God sent forth his Son made of the woman, made of the law to adopt people through faith in Christ Jesus. So no privatism. Let's even add more. Jesus now came and told them, what are the signs of your coming? He told them. He said, this temple is going to come down. Is that all he said? Not that Jerusalem is going to fall. Why did all that happen? Because God had no favorites. Did God do it? Are you asking?

God didn't do it. By about 40 years after Jesus said that, actually 30 something years, Jerusalem was invaded, the temple was destroyed. And that was much of what he said in Matthew 24. We're not there yet. We are going to get there. In Matthew 8, 11:13, when he spoke to the centurion, he said, people who come from the north and the east and the west, they will sit at the table with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. In Matthew 21:43, Jesus already announced that there's not something special about Israel. What is special about Israel is this man talking Jesus Christ. So at that fullness of time when he came, it now became clear that Israel was not a special nation. It was just a very cool nation for the majority desire to be born.

So therefore, when I read about the Sabbath, for example, in Leviticus 11:44, the context in Genesis 2, 3, what God had finished, he has asked man to enter and remember what he has done. And what is man supposed to do in that? He's supposed to love as God has loved. Be ye perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. Leviticus 11:44. Therefore, when I read the Old Testament, well, I notice that God's sacrifice, what he requires of us, is in our hearts. Why then did they use rituals? God didn't introduce rituals. Rituals were already with man. In fact, historically speaking, the use of the oil called the olive oil, you know, had been done in the Eastern religions way before Abraham. Use of the oil. That was why when Isaac said, oh God is here, he put oil there. That's the practice of their day.

Oh God is there. Just like the giving 10% was not created by God, it was honor and honor given in that culture. That's what it was. I think it has gone universal now. So what exactly is God's ritual? Your heart. Your heart. Psalm 51, verse 15 to 19, David said, what you require is a broken heart, broken spirit. Hosea66amos5, 2124 it was really clear in the Old Testament that what was required really was the heart. Moses told them Deuteronomy that what God wants to circumcise is your heart. Jeremy 30. So therefore we must read it in the light of God using a present day practice to teach spiritual truths and then incrementally taking them through what they were doing to what he wanted them to become.

So let me quickly say this food, therefore in the laws was to show holiness and uniqueness in the nations. Yeah, let's give an ex look at an example. You know, normally during the atonement, the Jews used to fast. They take time off food, they look sober, everybody's doing, oh, what's going on? You know, I say, you know, we are remembering how God rescued us from Egypt and the atonement and then the Passover. Sorry, the Passover, not the atonement. And Isaiah says, what is the fast that God wants? He says, when somebody is hungry, give him food. When somebody is poor, he has no house, give him where to stay. See, that is the fast I am looking for. That is in Isaiah, which means that the essence of the Passover is the love of God.

So if we just read carefully, we read beyond the rituals were there. Okay, let me see. Was it Moses that started offering animals? Not Isaac, not Abraham, not Noah. Sacrificial offerings had been done way before in other cultures. God simply adopted it to explain what will happen to Jesus, what he will do because of man's sin. That's all. Now there's an argument that, well, the reason for sacrifice was that man already knew in his heart that something had to be done in place of his guilt. Maybe, maybe not, maybe not. So therefore, when you come to the dietary laws, I've seen somebody teach this and I laughed and the person said, the reason why Moses gave dietary laws was so that people will not fall sick. It's interesting.

However, the truth is that in giving the laws, now if you listen to the series we did on Leviticus, I did say much of this, that much of those instructions about food, drinks had to do with holiness. And I mentioned that in their world was idolatry. And so the touch knots had to do with stepping down the things they were already doing and pointing their attention to Jehovah God, we'll see something shocking. In other words, the focus was on salvation, not on diet. So the food was about holiness. So why were some animals forbidden? Some accepted. Why already the person who says, don't Eat this animal. Eat that one. When he's teaching you, says that when God created the animal, everything was good. Are you following this? Genesis 1 and 2, everything was good.

Then he gets to his laws and says, this is not good. He's not contradicting himself. He's only using the animals to pass across a message. And we're going to see what the message was. I won't go to Leviticus with you because we have done the study before. I'm just going to revisit something I said before. Now, when you look at the food laws, you discover that carefully. Moses made a distinction between animal eating animals and animals that didn't eat animals. Scavengers, predators. When he gave laws about scavengers and predators, he was depicting what kills. Call it the flesh. So when Jesus came in Mark 7, he said, look, whatever you eat. He says, whatever you eat, it goes to your stomach and goes to. In that. In those days you say shit. Latrine. Don't say toilet. Toilet is too sophisticated.

He says, where, therefore, where does evil come from? He now says, mothers or cleanliness is in the heart. So by using animals in that instance. Pay attention. Moses is teaching how the heart should be. It's not dieting. Lord, is he a nutrition professor? Do you understand? No, he's not. The issue According to Mark 7, 1423 remains the human heart. Cleanness and uncleanness, therefore, will have to refer to life and death, because at the very inception, light was separated from darkness. Right? Are you there? Genesis 1, 3 and 4. Then precisely. Genesis chapter 2, eat of this tree. And the difference was life and death. So which means that in eat and not eat, which he had already shown in Genesis 2, he's talking about sin or unbelief and faith. So from Genesis 2, thou shalt eat. Thou shalt not eat. Was there.

Had explained, therefore, the essence of the dietary laws. Some call it the kosher laws. The reason for it is faith and unbelief. So what then were the issues? Leviticus 19:19. We've done these studies before 22, 9, 11, where he speaks, for example, against mixtures to mix, 2nd Corinthians 6:14 says, don't be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, darkness and lies, righteous and unrighteousness. He that believes in an infidel, etc. Etc. That is to mirror what Moses has said, you find, for example, it speaks against inside homosexuality. Leviticus 18, verse 6 to 23, male and female distinction, which has been applied to Trousers. Supernaturally, a woman will not put on what pertains to a man, and a man will not put on what pertains to a woman. Why? Because it made male and female.