No, it's a serious book. Praise God. All right, look at this. Therefore, as a Bible student, the context refers not just to words used, but more than that. You must look at the history and the events around it. Did you notice that there was something consistently said throughout the Old Testament? Except pay attention. In Genesis I, the Lord that delivered you from Egypt, you will find it in Malachi and say egypt. Do you understand? Which means that story in itself represents something else. So you see it all over. I know that virtually every time Moses wanted to give an instruction on the law, he will remind them of that event. That's why if you have listened to Exodus before, listen to it again now. We have to understand the history of Israel, the events around it, what was going on?

What was the essence of a statement? A statement only has its true meaning in the context where it is used. Now, let me now give you a context, a background. Imagine if you go to Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia practice monarchy. They have been part of monarchy since time immemorial. And then you. Okay, before I go there, how many of you really read history? Okay. How many of you have read Things Fall Apart? Is it as. Wait, is it for exam. But I think it's one of the greatest. Now is my favorite writer and I think in the age to come. No, apart from Paul. But I read things all apart again last year. And the thing about this for me was the Simplicity by which he passed across an ideology. I mean, that man was. Is a storyteller, actually.

He simply told the story of how they tried to change a people's culture. That was what he was talking about. It's not if you get carried away by carrying it on his head. No, no, no. And one thing I saw was, and it helped my Bible study, one thing I saw was when you want to change a people, you know, and you want to change what they were used to, oftentimes you almost use what is wrong to do what is right. Because that is all that you have. If God is going to save man, he has to become a man, right? And this man has fallen, so he will have to use fallen man. So you will have to express what is right through what is wrong. That is why all the characters of the Old Testament, I said that deliberately, were faulty vessels.

There was none of them. That's why today, if anybody use you to be like Joseph, to be like Moses will look at you and say, are you well, because the Bible is honest enough to show you that they were frail people. They were men of like passions, ordinary men. I mean anybody who at the stroke of anger, even you before you got born again. I don't think that when somebody gets you angry, the next thing is you kill the person. Kill, kill. Even to kill. Some of you are so heartless to kill mosquitoes, able to kill chicken. You see blood and a guy just goes, everything he says, jar, Jehovah, and you know what. And if you are going to save, that's the kind of person you can use. Do you understand? We are going back to their world.

That is the kind of person he was. But look at all the characters. The only person that we don't know, there are two people that we don't really. Well, one of them we don't really know much was Abel. Every other person, maybe Enoch, he went quickly. But every other person, he just, how can you get drunk and then sleep with your children? That's Lot, right? No. Okay, that's Lot is. This one got drunk and then went naked. Noah, Noah. And Noah was righteous in his generation. Somebody foreigner in Gota. Here. We are going to their world. So all that God had was a fallen world. He would therefore have to rely on what we do. And let me use this word. I know God permits me to struggle to say what he will do.

So can we therefore accept that the language of the Old Testament will be a language of a depraved world? The mindset the world was depraved. So think of going to Saudi Arabia today and introducing democracy. You know, you are going to have to do it gradually. You know that if you go to those places where, let's assume for 400 years they have been doing something, you will have to be gradual. You will introduce a new culture gradually. That means as some instance, you know, they should not do this, but you will have to permit them because you are taking them on a journey. Who is following what I'm saying here? Because that's what they were doing before. So in their world now, it's very easy for us to go back and say, what is that? What is that? Because now pay attention.

The world today is not as brutish as it was. One, two, though we still have places in the world today that are equally brutish. Two, we now have the New Testament. You can say this is the destination, but the journey didn't start here. Before we got here, we had to pass through many waters. And whether you like it or not, the revelation of God will experience a lot of injuries as it's going, will permit a lot of things, because that is not the end. And to explain again, Abraham had Ishmael. The Bible is honest to let you see the frailty of mortal man. Abraham had Ishmael. So which means that this, the situation at that point was not ideal. It wasn't ideal. These guys had been in Egypt for over 400 years, which means that in 400 years they are used to idol worship.

So to understand what Moses was saying, we might have to look at their world. What was the practice of that day? How were they? How was their customary law like, their social life? What was their judicial system like? So if you are going to now have a new people from them, you will have to do it gradually. At some point, permit at some point, instruct at some point, allow gradually. So it will therefore be wise for us to ask ourselves, what then is ideal? Genesis 1 and 2. Is it making sense? Is it making sense? That is the ideal. Something had happened after. To ignore it is to be dishonest. Then we say the first murder or the first killing in scripture was sinful.

And if it was not justified in Genesis 4, it means that every way it is done after it was not justified, it was only permitted because there was nothing God could do. There was absolutely nothing he could do about it, because these folks had been cultured that way. So let me allow you see it this way. We see the story of a God who had to be patient and had to gradually reintroduce man to his Genesis 1 and 2 ideal. Is it therefore agreed that in that process we are going to find contradictions? Are we together? Who's following what I'm saying here? We're going to find. To ignore their world is to ignore the context. We're going to find contradictions, which therefore means that a lot of things Moses will tell them to do will be temporary. Correct? Is that correct? Temporary? Why?

Because within the context of their world, he will have to permit it. And I think maybe next week or where I didn't look, I would show you some historical materials of what they were doing before he gave them the law. And you say, oh, he just said remove. I. He tried what they were doing before they were removing. I. He's like, he's gradually stepping it down. Who is following what I'm saying here? You will see what they were doing before this was their culture. And so gradually. And in the midst of that, you say, love your neighbor as yourself. Show mercy. You know, you don't say that at once. If they slap your own. Meanwhile, the laws of that is, if they slap you can remove dagger. He said, no, don't remove dagger, just slap back. You know, he has tried. I'm not joking.

No, because you have to consider the law at that. What they were doing at that time was worse. Thomas Hobbes said it was brutish. People were taking life for life. It was not Bible. So the laws of Moses was like, calm down. Okay, say, well, you know what? What if he gives you money instead of his life? And that looks good. That looks good. Okay. If somebody, for example, breaks down your car, you can shoot him. That was their practices. You can shoot him. But what if he gives you animal? That means it's repentance, right? Yes, I'll take it. So. So he was stepping it down gradually, till we got to Jesus. Let me stand it up for you, what I'm saying here. So the context is in their world, We find no God should have just imposed it on them. Okay?

Even the ones told them to do, which one did he do? The ones he told them to do, which one did they do there? In fact, the main man who will give them the law of the New Commandment or the New Covenant, the main man, he was brought up in Pharaoh's house. He was a master in the Egyptian institutions. So even he himself is growing up. Somebody says he sees somebody fighting his brother. Normally, I take it easy now with my brother. Just say. That is brotherly love. That is the man you are now going to rely upon to talk about the death of Jesus, first of all. But then now you here have been seeing Jesus. Do you know how many services we do for you to walk in the Spirit, in your own world? Who Explain.

Are you now saying that God cannot, that is now imagine in their own world? Who's following what I'm saying here? That is the context of the Old Testament. By the time you now got through to the prophet, things had stepped down. So when he came to Jesus, at that point he didn't have much choice because they were already under colonization. So even if you want to express anger, a palace will buy you more if it should hold you. So it is vital to understand their world then to see that the law, therefore the law of sin and death, or the law of Moses, was not the perfect or ideal situation. It was temporary and subject to the interpretation of his day. So therefore, when Jesus said, you have heard, now I see.

He was merely letting us see that the Old Testament laws was a gradual progression. Hope you understand this. Now you have heard, but now I see. So Jesus becomes the end point of everything. So in reading the Old Testament, just like Jesus has done, I will look at the structure of their day. Then, now that I'm born again, the interpretation of the Spirit. What is death to the Spirit of God? You get that? Paul will now go back and say, we mortify the deeds of the body. Very critical to put to death the deeds of the body. In Galatians 3:24, look at how Paul refers to the law of sin and death. You learn something. Galatians 3:24. Wherefore? Now don't forget again. There was something that happened here. There was a scenario. Paul paint. Paul paints Abraham, then the law, then the promise.

So you have to read this very well. So it says the law was the schoolmaster unto Christ. The word schoolmaster is the word PI de ghost. PI the ghost or something is used for children. A child supervisor. I check the word. Historically it's used for slaves who are not children in the house. Somebody you hire temporarily till the child grows up. So the law therefore will be a slave who is hired in a temporary way. Jesus said that the servant does not stay in the house forever. Remember that in John 8, it's only the Son that abides forever. In John 8. So let us see the law as a slave, a servant until Jesus. So in Galatians 3:13, before we got here, it says, christ has redeemed us from the cost of the law.

For as it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. He became a curse for us that the righteousness of God given by faith through Abraham, the promise of his spiritual faith might be received by the Gentiles. In other words. Therefore, I will ask the question, why was the law then given? What was it about? Now when were in university as a law student, they used to ask a question. Now when you want to interpret anything, we had different rules. One of them was called the literal rule where you apply something literally. Literally this is on the fourth day of the week, literally so. But when there is confusion or when there's a contradiction, they apply the mischief rule. Mischief rule means okay, what was this trying to correct?