Luke24. And verse 25. And he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And again, that Moses and all the prophets, he expired to them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself. Already we said there is a regular construction, Moses and all the prophets that is very consistent in the way the Scriptures are written. So we have a duty to know why I'm majorly. Some of the things we have said are taking care of that. But the phrase Moses and the prophets is critical because while it's not in all instances that Moses is always mentioned first, but the truth is, it is a construction that in itself shows us the pattern of the Scriptures. Moses, right. Then the prophets.

I will mention that in Acts 3:21, 22 through to 25, Acts 13:39. Yeah. 38, 39, Acts 20:26, 22, Acts 28:23, Moses and the prophets. John 1:45, Luke 24:44 says, these are the words I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, in the prophets, in the psalms concerning me. Then you opened their understanding that they might understand the scriptures. Nehemiah, chapter 8. The role of Bible study, the role of teaching. The concept of what you call the rabbitical teaching order. You have Nehemiah and all of that. Nehemiah, Ezra. Actually, Nehemiah ate the B part. He caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place, verse 8.

And so they read in the book, in the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the rhythm. So you can see that in Joshua 1:8, when Joshua was instructed, this book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. Thou shalt meditate day and night. We said that the concept there is, like Paul to Timothy, how to lead the people, right? And so he says, you will meditate there and day and night and observe to do all that there. And then you make your way prosperous and have good success. So the concept of the Book of the Law goes to the doctrine, which is the word. The word Torah means the doctrine. What is the doctrine? What is the teaching? So teaching will normally envelope basic things like the facts and then the contextualized facts.

We said contextualized facts is the understanding. What is the understanding behind this instruction is within the concept of doctrine. What is the understanding there? Then the wisdom, which we can call the application of the contextualized Facts. So you can't reliably teach the book of the law and vis a vis, not the entire Bible without contextualizing what is being said. So one of the things we said the last time is Nation of Israel is not a local church, even though it is a church. It's a church in the sense of the fact that they are an assembly, but it's a nation. And in a nation in today's world, we are going to have laws that will govern how people live and coexist. Laws about employment, laws about service, laws about cars.

In fact, there are countries where they even have laws as touching the kind of exhaust, the kind of emissions that can come out of cars. You say, well, if your car is like this, you cannot work in this region. So the kinds of food, some foods are banned. A couple of things is a nation. And so we will see the law of Moses as a people delivered out of slavery and all of that bondage. And then they are giving laws that govern every aspect of their lives. And Jesus said the reason for it is because of the hardness of their heart. Either to it should have been the law of Genesis, but now, because they've been in Egypt, because they've experienced slavery, bondage, and more important, or most importantly, the hardness of the earth.

Matthew 19:8, you have what we can now call the schia, the hypodegma, different descriptions of the law giving. So which means that the law of Christ or the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus should equally permeate the way we carry out justice, the way we carry out commercial transactions, and all of that. But you know, if that is not prevalent, we have to make do with what is available. And that's what God has done. That's what God has done in the Old Testament in the sense of the Exodus. So it's a nation. And so I believe that the other time we looked at the worship laws and I said they are worldly things. There was nothing spiritual about the tabernacle. There was nothing spiritual about the temple. That was something that they met in their world.

And Acts 7:22 says Moses was cooled enough. So what Moses has done is to use what they know as parable. Let me say something about parables for you. For example, we just use an instance earlier on where Jesus mentioned altar, even though he knows the altar is not that altar. Jesus equally would talk about master servants, the rich. Slavery is not that he endorses it, but that is a parable. That's what he will require, or that is what will be needed for him to pass across such understanding. So in our study of the Old Testament, we have learned that were confronted with people that accuse scriptures, a lot of things. And I did say this last night. I was talking to some of you, we're having a meeting.

And I said this, I said, look, I don't know whether this is emotional, but it is for me. Because behind virtually all major events in the world is theology. All major events in the world. By the time you read history and look at the root of even religions, okay, and practices, socialism, even the capitalism, you have people heaping up all sorts of scripture. I told you the other day that it was so painful, somebody had to show the history fact that it Elmina Castle, where they usually took slaves out of Ghana in those days, that as they are putting slaves here, clamping them down, some of the captors are doing fellowship. So they are reading Bible, praising God, you know, clapping, excited. And they had so. Which means that it was part of their doctrine that what they were doing was correct.

If you go and look at the. The John Brown, you know, the Kutakunta story, the slavery in America, at the root of much of it was scripture. And when Abraham Lincoln was also declared, it was also scripture. But we see the difference, you know, at the root of it was scripture. So when you look at apartheid in South Africa, and then you'll be ashamed to know that the proponents were of the Reformed theology church. And so we can't handle scriptures wrongly. Somebody was asking me that why are we so particular about people misabuling scripture? Is it that. Is this aggrave? That is everybody at one point, you know, the frivolous approach. God knows we are all human. We can, you know, I mean, very frivolous. I mean, is somebody giving an excuse for drug addiction?

After all, once in a while, I can't say there's nothing wrong in cocaine. I was told some of our drugs have some sleep of cocaine. You can be very stupid when they talk like that. And we can apply that if you're not careful to doctrine. You can't gloss over it. Where you notice that some texts of scripture where they are misinterpreted has led to millions of people, you know, being misunderstood. I mean, misunderstanding God. So we want to look at a couple of things. We have said that. Okay, let me document. I was trying to read. Have I read about the Titan for us, huh? Okay, that it's Near Eastern. Okay, now there's document here. I can't exactly go to it because it's quite much and in comparison.

And we saw that the laws of Moses was an adaptation and an attempt to amend the prevalent laws, common laws in his day. Whether it's the law of justice and procedure, the laws of witnesses, the laws of worship of other gods. So many things are here. You do more in documents than to be reader. The law of adoption of sons, poverty, accusation, you know. So what he did was someone who was schooled already in the laws of his days, the Metropolitanian laws, the Hittite laws. It's another one I forgot the other one. So he was cooled in it. And so knowing fully well that this is the reign of death, reign of sin, he was now doing his best, knowing the law in Genesis to gradually take his nation away from what they were used to. So he did his best.

That's Moses within what was available to him to, should I say, preach Christ as much as possible, or to step down much of what was prevalent in the world. For example, earlier we looked at war. That war was a part of the old world. It was not the way you see it today. It was a fabric of that ancient world. And I guess much of this information will put it in the upcoming material. There are much. Maybe I'll try and tease you to highlight a few for you. So virtually every one of those things, it was amending a law. Sometimes you will agree with it, sometimes he will amend it. At times it would totally oppose it. I mean, so he was a lawmaker.

Moses is your typical senator today, typical House of Representative member, or maybe when we are in United Kingdom, member of the Parliament. In this instance, he was the Parliament. So want to look at one controversial area, and that controversial area is slavery. That's why I said slavery deliberately. Slavery will also approach racism as well, where you have these blacks and whites and all of that Negro, Caucasian and that. Now on slavery, the first thing about slavery is we need to understand the use of the word slavery in their world. That's the first thing we need to realize that the concept of slavery in their world is very different. Slave trading in our world is when people go into a territory, kidnap, as we say, hold people forcefully and then put them under bondage to serve you.

We need to realize that slavery in the Old Testament was very different. The moment you make that mistake, every other of your interpretation will go wrong. So the servanthood in the Hebrew culture was quite different. I tried to check a difference here. Now, the servanthood or the slavery of their days, called the indentured laborer. Indentured, I.e. I N D N T U R E D Indentured laborer is an employee within a system of unfree labor who is bound by a signed contract to work without pay for the owner of the indenture for a period of time. The contract often lets the employer sell the labor of an indenturer to a third party. Now, indentured servitude, unlike slavery of today, is a contract of your own free will. Now, there's a wealth which is not free.

Where we're going to see, you are owing money and the only way to pay the money is to come and serve out the value of the money you are owing. That's another background. So we must make that clarification first. Where you don't make that clarification, you was assumed, and this was not done in America, because I told you that much of theology. There was much theology in the way they began slavery in America. It was in fact, a good number of slave owners were church leaders. So. And we'll come to New Testament world too. So an Israelite, all right, will be an employer of a boss in order, primarily, not all the time, to discharge a debt. So the use of master is an old word. Today's language will be an employer because the term is the word adorn, adon.

It's better for boss or employer, just like your boss at work. The word servant is ibed, ebed. It shouldn't be used as slave. It's all Old English. So being an ibed is like an employee. Today, it's not something undignified as we apply it in today's world. Even though the terms to buy and sell and acquire are used in the language concerning slaves or servants, it shouldn't mean automatically that the men were treated as properties. Because that's another accusation that the Bible takes men like property. No, again, we are saying in their world, that was commercial transactions. That was community living. Just like today we have employers employee. Now let's think about a football player. Today we use words like, well, trying to see what not to say, like Barcelona sold Messi to Chelsea, something like that. Or they say, okay, Arsenal bought Cristiano Ronaldo.

I'm sure you wouldn't think it's a property. It's commercial in the sense of the buy and sell have to do with the service, not the person. So when we see slave, which is an old word, I will see the implication later on in the next session where it's used for Jesus, okay, It's not somebody kidnapped. That's why some of the Greek put as Bond, servants, somebody who is contracted to serve. So it's of his own free will. So when you look at a football player, it was sold to this person or a basketball player, at the end of the day the benefit is for the player that was sold. And we said the owners of the club, are you under contract under them and all of that. It's not slave trade, it's just a contract.