The old covenant is the use of earthly things which will fade away with time, which will be altered here and there to point to the new covenant. That is why the new is called. The old is called a shadow. We'll see that shortly. So it says 1, look at the description a copy 2. A shadow scare 3. A pattern show 2. Point in the Greek shown you. Now we'll look at that word show. Now let's typically. Let's go back to Hebrews 8, 5. Example and shadow of heavenly things. Because what you have is worldly. So he says. Moses was admonished of God Chrematizo to caution someone. That is Moses. You are about to build what they know. Ensure that whilst they used the earthly pattern, they knew either wash it more all these strange gods. Ensure it is according to pattern.

Ensure it points them to the promise, whilst in Egypt it pointed them to man made God. Ensure that you do. That's why in the temple there was nothing in the temple that was used to represent God. Whereas in the Egyptian temple there will be an effigy that he was warned. Make sure. That's why I said, when you heard the word, did you see anything good? So that means the way the temple was formed, it was formed to say God is a spirit. So if you knew God is a spirit, the ruach, it simply meant that the temple or tabernacle was a film trick. Since you already say God is a spirit. And Hebrews Genesis 1, 2 over the nations, what we call the omnipresence of God. Does that make sense to you? That makes sense to you. So he was warned.

Make sure it's according to the pattern that was shown you. The word show. There is the word deknumi. Deknumi. It was used about Jesus in Matthew 4, 8 to show. To explain. It is used to teach. Matthew 16:21. Jesus used to explain to his disciples. So Moses was instructed. Chrematizo a word that means to be so instructed. Matthew 2:12 and 22 you find the word warned. That's the wise men. Then Joseph, Luke 2:26, Acts 10:22, Hebrews 11, 7, Noah, Hebrews 12:25. So he was knowing that. So that means that while Moses had the liberty to use his knowledge, his education, he was one. Ensure that it's according to pattern. According to pattern. That is to post it must be. It must have the pattern of that means you will have to rework it. Rework idol lottery around the Gospel.

How many of you agree with me? It's not an easy task. Who sees that? Easy task? Who can see it? It's not an easy task to rework. So you'll have to rework it. He will have to use natural things to point to spiritual realities. So it's also called a skier. Skier is for that's the word shadow. People always think that shadow is where is a shadow. They don't get what a shadow means. The word scare means thick darkness. It is the opposite of light. Graph darkness in Matthew 4:16 is used for a shadow. Mark 4:32, Luke 1:17, Acts 5:15, Colossians 2:17. A shadow of things to come. The body is Christ, the Soma. Hebrews 10:1. A shadow of good things to come. That is the opposite of reality. So you will not find the substance in the shadow. It's not there.

There will be enough in the shadow to show you it is not it. It points to something else. So Moses is in between two worlds, is in a world where people in worship. Let's go over that again. So that means the people he is to lead. All right. Understand those symbols of worship. But he will now use it to achieve something else. It's not an easy task at all. I would use the Levite to say, well, this is like Paul with the Gentiles. A Gentile doesn't understand what you mean by shepherd. Shepherd how? That's a nomadic lifestyle where you have poet. Then the shepherd will typify Moses, because Moses was a shepherd. He was a shepherd over Israel. He was a pastor of Israel, was their teacher.

So he will come to the Gentile nation and they will use the word episcopos, somebody who governs a city or a people. Bishop. So poemen. Episcopals are interrelated. Poemen is what the episcopals does in Acts 2:20 when it says to feed the flock. Poimano. I think that's the word he has made you overseers. Episcopals. Then he also called them elders, Presbyterians. So I put it like this for your. For your classification. The function in the Hebrew language is poimen, which is to oversee a flock. Because you use shepherd sheep. When you say shepherd and sheep. A Jew understands what you are saying. When you say shepherd and sheep, the Greek will say shepherd sheep. How so? Poem is. Yeah. So when you come to the Greek city, you use episcopals. Same thing.

But what is common to both is the word presbyterius, elder, spiritual maturity. Everybody knows that it is people who are mature that are put in position of governance. Same thing as a shepherd. So elder is the shepherd. So he's the pastor and is also the bishop. One and the same. Even the phrase priest. Why wouldn't Paul use priests? Because priest again is in the world of Abraham, is used for what we call today, you know, the intermediaries, the priests between Them and deities. Kohen is a primitive language used for those who teach, instruct on behalf of deities. So therefore our understanding of the books of Moses must not be taken away from their world. I'll repeat something I said earlier for emphasis. Israel was a nation that requires governance, that requires law making, execution of the laws.

They will need police, they will need security. They will need laws of marriage, laws of divorce, laws of remarriage, commerce. They will need laws of building. They will need laws around even agriculture. So. And that's why you find that this is, by the way, but I know I taught this before, that even though you find instructions to kill but not murder, just like today, if they shoot, if a policeman shoots an armed robber, you will say he murdered him. You call it a justice system. So Moses will have to make such laws. That's why you find out that they also have laws against extrajudicial killings. I know we've done this before, so every time I see the phrase the law of Moses, I must be ready to unpack the bag. Is it the promise?

Is it the legislation of criminal justice system, commercial law, civil rules? Is it about worship? Either way I go around it, I will be building all my systems around the promise given to Abraham because we must function as a nation, as a people having the same principle. So Moses will use the principle in Genesis in civil disputes, criminal disputes. It will not be perfect. It can never be perfect because it was to be done gradually. It's a gradual orientation of a people. The promise was not set gradually. The promise was clear cut. The practice of the promise, which will now go into their civil laws, commercial laws, is what we are going to unpack together.

Galatians 4:1, therefore will now make sense when Paul says, now the heir, as long as he's a child, defers nothing from his servant, though he be lord of all. Verse 2 is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. Even so we, when were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world. Now this is talking about worship. Now, the elements of the world is what he now referred to later in verse. Now God has sent forth the spirit of his Son into your heart. I mean, all that the Lord was trying to achieve in his weakness, God has done in Christ. So he says, you are no more a servant, but a son. Verse 7. You've a son in an heir of God through Christ.

Verse 8, wherein you knew not God, you did service unto them, which by nature are no gods. You didn't know God, okay, but now, after you have known so what? He has crossed from the Jewish Christian to the Gentile Jew Christian, by saying you have known God rather than of God, why are you turning again to the weak and beggarly element that is the instrument of worship, where also you desire to be in bondage. You observe days and months and times and years. Because the concept of using days in worship is in the Near Eastern religion. It's in Egypt, the Hittite laws, Mesopotamian laws. So Moses will say, okay, you guys say, this is the end. So when you have the 7 number of perpetual things, they are Eastern traditions, a new beginning.

Moses will use the days, weak and beggarly elements of this world to experience spiritual principle that you see that seventh, which is the end, the seventh day is when God has done everything. So the new beginning, you walk in what God has done. You won't find the use of this in Genesis at all. It was an Egyptian orientation. So he created what we call the Shabbat, which doesn't exist in Genesis. It's written in Genesis 2, 3, as a promise tree that Moses himself interpreted that. You see, what God has done here is equal to the Sabbath, where everything is finished. That's why you see seven days of creation. Then he said one single day. And he calls that one single day the seventh.

So he's using his education as an Egyptian scholar to say, I'm using the beggarly elements of this world to point you to a spiritual reality. In the seventh day, everything is done. The eighth day, new beginning. I'm saying to you that all God has promised is called the seventh. He has finished it. Then the eighth, the big, like John said, on the first day of the week, that is a new beginning. So he simply used their superstition to teach the reality of the world. That's why Jesus said, the Sabbath was made for man, not man. For the Sabbath it was used. Who made the Sabbath for man? Moses. But here is the Lord of the Sabbath. This is the person the Sabbath pointed to. That Sabbath you are referring to, which in Moses law points here.

So Paul is saying, why are you still observing days? These are weak, beggarly elements of this world. So Galatians 3. Hope you are learning something. Are you learning something? Galatians 3. I'll start from 23. Before faith came, were kept under the law. Shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed. Now, here, majorly in Galatia, Paul is referring to the ceremonial laws. It doesn't focus much on the judicial laws, the worship law, ceremonial laws. He says, where the law was our schoolmaster unto Christ, the word schoolmaster, there, Padagogos is used by Paul in 1st Corinthians 4:15. It means a temporary measure. What will eventually lead to the real education. Galatians 4:1 and 2, the tutors and governors.

So which means that the law of Moses was to use human, beggarly, worldly elements till the time appointed of the Father, till we get to the efficient and sufficient messenger and nation found in Christ Jesus. So when we study the history of the Jews, we must understand the history and then theology and separate. So if the law was a schoolmaster, it is going to be gradual. Still. Christ don't expect it to be perfect because it's going to be a mixture of the divine and the worldly. So this leads us to Matthew 5. Hope it's clear. Is this clear? Matthew 5. Don't forget the background. Israel is a nation. Israel is not a church, okay? It's a church in Zaire. I call that religion. But Israel is not saints. Community church is a nation.

So the way you have to see Israel will be to see Israel like Nigeria, Okay? Like Nigeria. This is the error people also make when they start seeing the king of Israel, who equally was a shepherd, a teacher of the law, as you know today. Oh, no, no, no. There are two different things. There's a human government that we have to submit to. Jesus submitted to the human government. And there is a government of the spirit, where the king is a ruler. He gives decrees. You know, they have market days, they have this. Then he also has a spiritual role where it's a prophet, where he teaches the law. You see now that is in their world today. No, you don't say, I'm aspiring for a political office. You say, why? Because I want to act like King David. Go.

The person that told you that they had to thumbprint for King David will put you there. He didn't talk David, he said no. How was he chosen by the Spirit. That shows you he played both a worldly and spiritual role. So even though, spiritually speaking, you will change the law, but the worldly part, you will have to sit among the princes and the nobles. You will have to do what they do. So you can't mix it together. So without this contextual understanding, we'll mix up the roles. Let's go to Matthew 5. So when Jesus said this, if you don't get this one, I'll pray for you. You have heard verse 21. It was said of them of old time, thou shalt not kill, right? We, whosoever shall kill shall be in the danger of judgment. What's the danger of judgment? You will be killed.