Endikos Hebrews 2:2 Every just recompense of reward so that's a different word, but Romans 3:26 to declare I say at this time that God himself might be just and a justifier he may have done the right thing. Romans 7:12 Therefore the law is holy, the commandment is holy, just, and good. Galatians 3:11. The just shall live by faith. Philippians 4, 8. Whatever things are, just think on these things. Colossians 4:1. Talking about servants and just being just. Titus 1:8. The bishop must be a lover of men. Just a man that does the right things. Hebrews 10:8,38 sorry. The just shall live by faith. Now look at this key 1 Hebrews 12:23. The spirit of just men made perfect those who did the right thing. The Hebrews 11 companies by faith, by believing in God's faithfulness. Hebrews 10:39.

We are not of them that draw back, but them that believe. James 5:6. They killed James 5. Let's look at that. 1 James 5:6. You have condemned and killed the just, and it does not resist you. That's Jesus. First Peter 3:18. Christ has suffered once for sins the just, for the unjust one who has done the right thing for those who have not done the right thing. Second Peter 2:7. For that righteous man dwells amongst them in sin, and hearing vex his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. In contrast, First John 1:9 is faithful and just to forgive. He is faithful and just to forgive. He has done the right thing to bring and affirm me by the blood of Jesus. 1St John 17 1st John 2:1 2. The right thing he has done the right thing.

The last word is the word justification. Romans 4:25 raised up for our justification. Romans 5:16 Many offenses unto justification. So the word darkayo dakios darkusune will be split into two for now to believe rightly and to do the right thing as a contrast to the wrong thing. So which means that when a man is said to do right, he is putting something in the right. He is giving the proper conduct. These are the what was done elsewhere. So it is therefore clear that the word diakosune is not Paul's creation. It's the Old Testament word tsedeka and tzedek to do what is right. Or to be in the right. Romans 5. Sorry for Romans 5. So we said that the background in Genesis 15:6, Abraham believed in the Lord. It was counted for him as being in the right.

Which means that in the writings of Moses, Abraham is used as a character of righteousness, God's righteousness, or being in the right. So therefore, in the mode of Paul's submission, he starts with Abraham in Romans 4:1, 2, 3, he proceeds to Adam in Romans 5:12 through to 19 and 20. It means where Adam was wrong, Abraham was right. Where Adam was in the wrong, Abraham was in the right. So you will see the contrast, death and life is used with Abraham, his body now dead. The deadness of Sarah's womb, then the resurrection to life. He's called the heir of the world. A promise is made. So which means the promise made to Abraham is to put in the right, in contrast to what happened to Adam.

So the subject of righteousness must be seen from the perspective of putting it right or putting it in what is right. Let's examine a critical word. Covenant. Paul hardly used it. Jesus on the Passover table did call the Passover a covenant. Matthew 26:28. The blood of the new covenant. Mark 14:24. Luke 22:20. Even though there was a holy covenant mentioned by the prophecy of Luke 1:72. And that word is the word diatheke. D I a T H E K e. It means to reach a point of contact or action with another. Is used for contracts. Is used for agreements generally. But the difference here is what you are about to see. You find the word covenant. Acts 3:25. You are the children of the covenant. Acts 7:8. Acts 7:8. He gave the covenant of circumcision. Look at Paul, just here and there. Romans 9:4.

To whom is the covenant? Romans 9:4. Pertains to the adoption of the glory of the covenants. Romans 11:25, 27. Sorry, this is my covenant, that I shall take away their sins. Notice that every time you see the word covenant, it is what God will do. So it's not like an agreement between two parties. Galatians 3:15. Brethren, I speak as man of men. Though it be but a man's covenant, yet be confirmed, no man are nosy to add to it. Galatians 3:17. The covenant which was before God in Christ the Lord. The covenant which was before of God. Galatians 4:24. There are two covenants. Ephesians 2:12. The covenant of promise. Now the Book of Hebrews has it in more volume. Hebrews 7:22. It was a shorty of a better covenant or Testament. Hebrews 8 6. Jesus, a better covenant, with a better promises.

Hebrews 8 8. A new covenant. Hebrews 8 9. The covenant. Hebrews 8 10. The covenant. Hebrews 9 4. Ark of the covenant. Hebrews 9 5. No. Hebrews 9 15. Mediator of a new testament. Hebrews 916 and 17. Where a testament is, there must be a testator. Hebrews 9:17. The testament is of false after men are dead. Hebrews 10:16. This is the covenant. I will make the house of those days, saith the Lord. Now when you say house of Judah and house of Israel, don't forget is at this point that the kingdom has been divided to north and south. That's why house of Judah of Israel comes to play after Jeroboams. See the significance shortly. Hebrews 12:29 had counted the blood of the covenant wherewith he was sanctified the holy thing, and had done despite unto the Spirit of grace. Hebrews 12:24.

The mediator of the New Covenant. Hebrews 13:20. The God of peace that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant. Everlasting. That word da tike is from the word da titemi d I a t I t h e m I It means to grant to another. Luke 2:29 to grant. Acts 3:25 to give to grant. Hebrews 8:10. To give to grant. Hebrews 9:16. Makes it look like somebody who writes a will. A will is not an agreement between the real writer and those that beneficial benefit from it. A will is from one person. The only way why it is called a dire is because it involves two people. One person gives, the other person receives. It's not like an agreement we both sign. No. Hebrews 9:17, same thing. Hebrews 10:16.

So when you hear new covenant, what comes to mind is Jeremiah 31, verse 33 to 35. Let's go there. Jeremiah 31. I'll start from verse 31. Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Now look at this is a very clear explanation. Not according to covenant which I made with their fathers in the day that I took them out by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, which my covenants they break, although I was an husband unto them, saith the Lord, not according so which means that he's making a distinction between what happened in Egypt in the Exodus and in Genesis. I will make the word make is the word Karath k a r a t h It means to write for another.

To write for another. Genesis 15, 8, Eighteen. Sorry, no. 1518. The Lord made a covenant with Abraham, saying unto him, so it's in words, it's in what he has said. So the word covenant in the Old Testament words is it 284 times. Please listen carefully. Here it is. From the word Berith b e r I t h In Genesis 6 and 18 I will establish my covenant. Genesis 99 I will establish my covenant. 9, 11, I'll establish my covenant. 9, 12, 13, 15, 16, 17 I'll establish my covenant. Genesis 172 I will make my covenant between thee and me. It is a promise that one person fulfills on behalf of the other. It's not an agreement between two people. One person initiates it, makes it available, the other person responds to it or doesn't respond.

So again back to Jeremiah 31 I will put my laws in their hearts, write it on their minds towards their kwareb Aleb. The word heart is from the word leb. Innermost being, consciousness. Jeremiah 31:33 Put my law in their consciousness, write it in their innermost being. So why does he use the word new? This is very key. The word new is the word cheddar. C H a D a C H a D A h is from the word Chadash C H a double D a S h I said the word cheddar the word news from the word chadha C H a D a h from the word Shadash C h a double D a S h It means to renew it, to keep something alive. Exodus 1:8 New king in Egypt kept the throne alive. 1St Samuel 11:14 2nd Chronicles 15:8.

Let us go and renew the kingdom. Renew the kingdom. 2Nd Chronicles 15:8. I renew the altar. So when it says a new covenant, it means I will renew it. Not the one from Egypt. I will renew what the covenant was before the Egypt experience. So when we say a new covenant, it means God renewing His promise doesn't mean it went old. It just means he is restating the irrevocability of his promise while we have his faithfulness. Don't forget that he used that word when he said Israel had failed. They did not continue in my covenant. And when they did not continue in the covenant, Moses gave them the law of sin and death. But the law of the Spirit of life is renewed, is the new covenant.

So whilst the old covenant is temporary in the types, shadows and figures of speech, the new is eternal. So we therefore need to see what is God's righteousness. What is righteousness in Abraham? So when you have a new covenant will be the renewal of the promise made to Abraham. Because the background of the Exodus covenant is the promise that he swore to the Fathers. So therefore in Genesis, Abraham is made to be in the right where Adam was not. So Abraham being called righteous means you are now in the right in contrast to Adam. So Moses will put together if you are teaching Moses there the words of Moses, you will put Deuteronomy 30, Genesis 2, 16, 17, Genesis 3 side by side, and say, I set before you life and death, good and evil, all right?

And he says, I wish that you choose good. But later on he says, you are a froward and a children. Deuteronomy 32, 20 in whom there is no faith. So which means that he finds in the actions of Israel what Adam did, and he presents to them what Abraham did. In other words, Abraham is right or is in the right where Adam was wrong. We'll see all that contrast as we proceed. So you have some, you know, trend similarities you have in Exodus 32, when Moses came down from the mount, he saw them worshipping a molten calf. He now asked Aaron, what have you done? Aaron said, we put together gold, I just put his eye, fire. It just came out as a calf. Very, very interesting excuse. 24. He said, I put in the fire, it came out as a calf.

Now just somewhere in your mind, Jeroboam does the same thing, all right, where he also takes Israel to worship idols. And the nation was split into two. So in Exodus 32, verse 13, remember Abraham, Isaac, Israel, thy servants, to whom thou sworest thy name. So here is Moses pleading with the new covenant, pleading with God's covenant made to Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that have I spoken of will I give unto thee. So he repented. And he said, the Lord is repented. The Lord very, I mean Hebraism, not God change his mind. It simply means that God showed compassion, that's all, instead of justice or judgment in that instance. And that intercession is similar to what Abraham also did in Genesis 18.

So Abraham is made to do it right where Adam did not. So the first thing we see is Abraham believed and he was in the right. Adam did not believe, Abraham did very key. So the subject of righteousness, therefore is God's promised righteousness, which is believed. And then the man is dikaio. He is put right. He is put right because of what God has done towards him. God has done what is right. God has put him in the right. The man has believed in what God has done in the right. So the subject of righteousness, therefore is to be in the right. Where Adam had been in sin, Adam had missed it. And man is put in the right by God doing what is right.