We have read our school books well. We have read our career books well. We haven't read newspapers better. When it comes to The Bible. You know I noticed that if I put something out on Facebook, all I need for people to read it is put a picture, they will study it or a bad news the moment it is Bible. And I think it came from the churches and we are all responsible we demise in the Bible. There's a very good switch up. But just put for example, look at how many comments I got on my best day. Thank you everybody. People are still commenting this morning. It was long ago but they will read it. If you say coronavirus found in so and so persons bedroom and somebody they don't like write 20 pages, they will read it 20.

But if something right there you mentioned Bible. There is a belief system that just say something from God, solve our problems, say we are wrong or we are right. The guy told me, he said, I said go and listen to this. He said don't, don't. Let me just tell me, just say your position. I said no, say don't be kidding me, God, are you not a pastor? Just say I'm right or I'm wrong. I said I won't say any. And the problem is from us because when you are ill prepared, you go to a people and you birth them the same way. Let me tell you something, they are born again people today I don't want to mention churches include your own who in their minds have atheistic beliefs because we have not done a thorough job in their minds.

They are saying hey, they have seen texts that you have run away from stylishly. Just say, you know there was lesser light. And the guy says if there was lesser light in the Old Testament, how did you write the new? Who gave the light to say Jesus. They say Jesus came to fulfill the same Old Testament. Choose one part you cannot add and abet, approbate and reprove at the same time. It's either the Old Testament was perfect or it was not. If it is imperfect, then forget the Savior. Then Jesus could not have come in the authority of the Old Testament. If it's perfect, then there's a problem. And that problem is what we must solve. Hope I'm making sense. So we therefore must calculate. Calvinism is a theology that is not just subtle, it is monstrous.

You and I don't know how much we have been inculcated without thinking. And here we are. We have been subsumed even into customs of Jews. We don't know that's not what they are doing, that's what they are. Don't we call church pulpit altars? Don't we call it. Don't we call church building sanctuaries? Do we know what an altar is? If you go and read old Egyptian books, you will laugh at what you are calling a church building. The concept of using blood, sprinkling it, the concept of priesthood are all borrowed. That is why Paul will equate symbolisms to idolatry. It must be explained a golden rule which would observe to conclude today we're not concluding yet. I've just said today is seeing the scriptures as his own interpreter. The scriptures interpret itself. If I didn't know I saw it. Moses did it.

Exodus 18, Ezra and Nehemiah 8, 7 and 8 did it. In Joshua 1:8, what did the Lord say to Joshua? This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. Why did he say that? Because he is a preacher. That is there is no other way to guide the people of God. People of God Outside the word of God. Thou shalt meditate agad day and night to what? Think about it right out and thou shalt observe to do all that is in therein. Then thou shalt make thy way prosperous and have good success. He's talking about leading his people, not about getting contracts and opportunities. Not at all. It is a respons. Just like Paul said to Timothy from a child you have known the holy Scriptures which are able to make the wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ.

All scriptures give My children of God is put the scriptures together and say the same thing. I charge you, preach the word, be inside in season. Exactly. Make upon these things, give yourself holy to them. Thy promise may appear to all the same thing. It's like Paul speaking to Timothy exactly what was said to Joshua. So systematic theology is the way forward. Jesus in his use of scripture Luke 24:25 to 27 shows us something the worst scriptures we have two major meanings. Gamma 2nd Timothy 3:15 which is literature. Thou has known the holy literature. By using gamma, Paul included the grammar, the vocabulary, the history, the ethos, the prologues, monologues, poetry. You know it. How is Timothy able to know it? By faith. By believing it's God's word, he advances into the work of knowing it. So the Bible is seen as a gamma.

Gamma is a literature. It's used for a writing, a kind of writing, a bill, Eros grammar. Then in 16 all scripture then I look 24 and 27. Grapho. Grapho is used for educated people. It's like saying literature a literacy material, you know, we said and I would ensure that we put these materials in what we are putting together that the church was where many people got their taste of call it today Western education. In the first century church, they actually taught them how to read. How to read. Now, is it not unfortunate that we that now know how to read? We are not reading. So both the grammar and the grapho are used in concurrence to say it is a literature as an educated material. I think I've dealt with this already that there's a faith factor.

The content, the grammar, you know, just over and over again looking at the word diamenu. Let me just refresh your memory. We have dia menu used as a translation. In other words, I am able to bring the meaning in another language. There are Menu Acts 9:36 used for translation. First Corinthians 12:30, interpretation of tongues. First Corinthians 14:5, First Corinthians 14:13, First Corinthians 14:27 is derived from the word mnu used for language. John 1:42, John 97, Hebrew 7:2 translation. Now look up guys that me I'm reinforcing it again. That teaching is translation. So now look up guys in Bible translations, how particular should the transitions be about every word? Very particular. What about the way they will group the words in phrases? Very particular. What about the ways they will group the words in verses, chapters, paragraphs? Very particular. That is your job.

That means that as you are teaching the word or writing, you must inform your readers and listeners how to group words together. Where you will need to disagree with how it is done in a translation. Feel free to as long as you stay within theology of the Bible. Is that clear? You can change where verses are because that is a teaching. See what Ezra did? Ezra did not contradict what was written in Samuel. Ezra simply explained it differently that rather than use this embracing style of God, did it now who mentioned God at all? So a teacher has a responsibility to translate in his own world. If it's incumbent on me to know that there can be Christian living without proper interpretation of Scripture, that means I must work hard.

Earlier on, as a Christian up to many years I distressed reading commentaries because of the disappointment I had with. I don't want to mention their names, I don't want trouble. But as I read those commentaries, I felt no. But I was in my involvement in Bible translation, I found out that really I wasn't supposed to have that kind of vexation because every translation and commentary are theologically biased. It's just incumbent on the translator to reduce the influence of the bias. I Am word of faith. I am charismatic. There is no way it won't have some way to come into the picture because I'm a product of influence. So is therefore incremental me to do my best possible or possible best to separate that from our interpret text.

I must do my best to get close to the meaning as much as possible when I see it and it confronts my bias, I must depart from my bias in allowing Scripture to interpret itself. I separate even what I said yesterday about that text. I've learned this very well, that trying to read a text the way I read it yesterday may be the problem I'm going to have. So in a session, for example, if I'm teaching, I go over the text again to see whether there was something I missed out yesterday. And sometimes a further explanation may look like it's not what say yes. No. I only expanded it because I must not allow my bias to interfere with my study.

So therefore, what has happened in recent years is that recent translations, not all, I can't even say most have neglected the Hebrew language. I think some who use the Septuagint. Septuagint is lovely, where the Greek interprets the Hebrew, but I think that it still has a lot of gaps. A lot of gaps. Many don't know why Abel's, sorry, Cain's wife was not mentioned. They should know because in the Hebrew culture, sons are the heirs. And so if you are writing a genealogy, you will retain male, the male, but the Hebrew culture will depart from God's word because he said male and female created them. Do you understand? So that should inform why the information is not there. It's like asking, who was Cain's driver? What do you want to use it for? Or who was, you know, Cain's neighbor.

Therefore, we need, even if it is just a brief work study on the permissive and causative sense of Scripture. Permissive verbs which have been carelessly translated into causative sense. We're going to take three tomorrow, on Tuesday, three or four. That is prevalent. Yesterday, I think I looked at the causes, the aba and said abba oftentimes doesn't have a pronoun. And in Hebraism it is permissive. It's like the. I mean, let me. Let me depart from say this briefly. It's like the instruction as men not put no pertaining to a woman and vice versa. And then you take it from that context to trousers today. Do you know? Now, it may be lost on some of you because you don't know the import of what I Just said. But those who were publicly shamed that they are not Christians anymore.

For it will feel the pain. Whereas in their world, Moses simply wrote an edict. A man made instruction to carry out a God statute. Homosexuality being prevented in the mode of dressing. So if I'm bringing it into my world, I won't talk about dressing. We're going to do that to the six hundred twelve or thirteen laws of Moses and group them properly and treat them in our world. That's why we're going to be righteous of God in our world. So when we see them, we don't run away from that. They are too much. They are too much. No. It is the law of God being explained in different illustrations. Does that make sense? So look at the pain. Whereas you see that the users of that text, they ignored the use of pool. What do you call it now? Wool.

And what is that they? You. They ignored it. Cotton. Because that is not convenient. They will ignore. You must not plant corn and rice. Because in the Eastern culture it was a way of worshipping an idol. You must not cut your bed in one way. Why? That is the culture in their land. That's why it says so that you will be holy unto me. You will be different from the world. So I will have to bring that to my world without mentioning cotton of hair. Do you understand? How do you explain tattoos now? Someone said, don't wear tattoo. I agree. But how do you say that to my grandmother? How do you say that to people born in Oyo who were practically evil? The issue of women's menstrual period was because of the culture of Canaan, where it was a means of idol worship.

Today we face different idols, but we must interpret that text. How in our world? So the teacher of God's word must never be found lazy in the way he handles these things. I want to ask a question. Today we have the benefit of Strong's exhaustive concordance. Okay, I was going to say something. When I was in those dictionaries and I found out that some things just didn't make sense. A general use of words. Things were just thrown carelessly around. I thought. No, the little I read earlier on about Greek and Hebrew, this is not it. So I just found out a lot of commentaries and even dictionaries were putting their own meanings. Strong is very safe. Please take it out of there. I'm not giving an endorsement. Very safe because it's close to an unbiased rendition. Even though there are instances where it is.