Okay, Death in the life of God, that is, there's death in the life of God, that is from the resurrection, something is killed. So if that's like I said, we're just trying to use the answers to. Now go and work out the question. So something is killed by the life of God, Something is killed by the spirit of God. That's funny. Death killed it. Just like saying darkness killed light, something like that. So killing can be positive. When it kills death and it kills sin. You have another word which is to put to death. Nikro N E K R O O necro word used in Colossians 3, 5 by Paul. Once again, don't forget that the background of all Pauline letters is according to what? Very good. So that means there's death. According to the Scriptures. Colossians 3 and 5.

Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. That means put to death, kill, fornication, uncleanness in not dead, affection, evil, consequence, covetous, which is adolatry of which things the sake, the wrath of God comes on the children of disobedience micro. Then you have apothnesko. I'll spell that for you. A P O T H N E S k o Colossians 3:1. 33 Sorry for you are dead and your life. Can you say you are dead and your life, or better say you are alive. So you are dead and you are alive. So you can see that it's positive. By the resurrection from the dead, Jesus defeated death. So death therefore can be put in a very positive light.

I said that because of the background that we have to set up and then go to the Old Testament and begin to see if at all there is a communication by the Spirit and the word death is used, then we should see it from a negative perspective as a positive perspective. For example, if you read and it says he that does this should be put to death. Now if you're a man of the senses, you bring out your knife and destroy. But if you are a man of the spirit, Paul will Say, that is the law of sin and death, which God did not initiate in the sense of it is man made. Romans 5 and 12. Sin entered into the world and death by sin. So the law of sin and death is that announcement or principle of what sin brought.

But if I hear put to death, and it is in the law of the spirit of life, it simply means walk in the spirit. I overfill the laws of the flesh. So it's. It is therefore incumbent on the reader to read it again. If I read the law of sin and death and say, okay, in man's already regulated life, I say kill. He brings out a knife and destroys. And what he has done is that sin now becomes more loud or louder, sin becomes more pronounced. Romans 5 and 20. Sin now becomes advanced by what you have done. The law came in and sin therefore increased. Okay, but if it's the grace of God, the law of the Spirit of life, in Christ Jesus, sin would not abound because that put to death means stop it.

So therefore will be a rereading of Scriptures, the Old Testament, you know, with that understanding. And that's why when Jesus, for example, says, if your right hand makes you didn't cut it, I don't believe. You know? I know you don't believe, sorry. That means you should bring out his sword and start cutting your hand. Now imagine if you set that to an unregenerated man. I say, this man in the camp causes us to sin, cut him off. The guy just brings out a cutlass because that is what he knows is in the law of sin and death. But Jesus simply means what he says, separate it from you. And the same thing, when Paul was going to talk about people that cause sin in the camp, that causes obedience, he said with such, you not eat, withdraw yourself.

So that means the concept of death should be seen as a withdrawal and a separation. But in the law of sin and death, that concept is to bring out a knife, bring out a gun and destroy a being totally. Is it making sense? Is it making sense? Alright, let's go. So one look at the Old Testament once again and look at the context of the things that were said. Already we said that the context of things must be viewed from what was happening. Then when we say kingdom, when we say Jesus said this, and he said that it must have context. We've looked at the exile concept, the fact that even though they were in Israel, they were in exile in the sense of they didn't have their own king, they didn't have their own authority, so they felt like being in Egypt.

So the Exodus story reverberates throughout Scripture. That Exodus story of God delivering from a wicked ruler, a tyrant, a tyrannical ruler, which is Pharaoh. It runs throughout Bible stories. You can't take away, ex. Remove Exodus from the Bible and then you'll be lost at all the narratives. So that means that after the first Exodus, okay, then they had the King David, then they went back to exile, and then they were crying out for a new Exodus. Of course, they had the Babylonian conquest. A lot of things happened. So they were waiting for that new Exodus. And the prophets kept prophesying it, kept saying that this is going to happen, a kingdom will be returned, and all of that. So even when they returned to their land, they still did not have the kind of kingdom that they wanted.

They still didn't have the kind of rule then they were, you know, under Roman rulership and all of that. So there was a cry for an Exodus not to even leave Jerusalem or leave Israel, but Exodus that will mean that their enemies will be trumped, their enemies will be triumphed over, etc. Etc. So they were waiting for that. That's the context of much of their expectation. Like we looked at it yesterday, we had hoped Luke 24:21, that it had he that will redeem Israel. So went into the context of the law of Moses. The first thing we have said is that the law of Moses was not a creation of Moses. Romans 5:12. Through one man, sin by one man, sin enter into the world, and death by sin. And death reigned upon all. For that all sinned, all that sinned.

Then he says, before the law came, sin was in this world. But sin is not imputed when there is no law. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over all them that had not sinned after the severity of Adam's foundation. So already shows you that it is not the law that brought sin. The law simply is simply accounted for it. Which means that within the law of sin and death is a pronouncement of what man was doing without God. Now, argument therefore was that, just like I said the other day, that people become very unfair when they say, well, how can you say that the religion of Christianity is of love? They are just trying to cover up the. The very evil deeds of God.

And then they of course, very smartly go to the Old Testament scriptures, ignore that Jesus came and tried to take away that fact. If I a guy told me, he said, Jesus just came. He just came to do. To do. He came to put out the fire he just came for PR purposes and he God had messed up so he had to come and say guys, I know I made a mistake. He was trying to be joking about it but I wasn't laughing. An elderly man. But the truth is they are usually very unfair because it's like saying you read history.

Let's assume you want to read the history of the Yoruba people which I belong to tribally tribe speaking naturally and then you say well can you imagine that the Yorubas used to call maybe used to call children that are sickly Abiku that is born to die. Can you imagine that when they want to bring in a king that time they will kill somebody. I remember when we my dad was going to be coronated then I asked him a question I said is it true that they usually will kill somebody because the king said that king will go to jail. He told me, I said. He said I'll say the way he said in Yoruba he said that is when the eyes were not open you say you want to do one useless ceremony to bring king.

They go and take somebody's life they ask you a question, say it's our tradition, don't worry, you and your tradition come here now that already opened my mind. Let me say something then you'll be dishonest. You have to also look around that tribe as to what others were doing and everyone simply had their own man made laws. In fact you just say. So in your own hometown did you kill just one person? In my own they will take 14 babies. Your own is good, our own is 21 pregnant women then as you go around just be thankful for the one. Are you following what I'm saying? It's the same way that those who use the Bible, the Old Testament to criticize Christianity are being dishonest because they act like Israel was the only nation on earth which is not true. There were many nations.

In fact many stories in the book of Genesis have twisted different corroborations in many legends. I read the Chinese history and they had a whole lot of things in the book of Genesis and I was able to trace it, to trace what they said both to Genesis chapter 5 and Genesis chapter 11 because they couldn't advance beyond that. I had a lot of other issues this is not true to now say it's about just focus on Israel because you want God to look bad. But Israel was not the only nation. We had other nations that existed at that time. And I said that one of the historians by the name Of Thomas Hobbes, who lived between 1588 and 1611 or thereabouts, wrote a book called the Leviathan.

I read that in the university because it was one of the things we read about the law. And he said something. He said the life of man using thousands and thousands of years of historical research. He said the life of man was nasty, brutish and short. He started to justify the essence of government. And he said people created very drastic and draconian man made laws. He mentioned revenge. Now I can now understand it now. He mentioned revenge. He mentioned, you know, that many things that we felt was a creation of. Of Moses law. No, that was the prevalent culture in the land. Don't forget that they came out of Egypt, they didn't come out of Zion, they came out of Egypt. The, the.

The practice of going to rescue a nation with soldiers that Abraham, for example, did those from historical facts say that there was no life loss. I'm not going to start bothering my head about that life loss, life taking. That's not my issue. I don't start outside an argument on that. But that prevalence was a culture. Just like the culture of using oil. The culture of tithing was his stand. You take a tenth, then you give it. You take this. And so when Moses picked it, he simply said if you can honor in your culture that way you are going to honor God. So he simply used what was already prevalent to explain biblical spiritual principles.

I knew we said something in Mark that the fact that Jesus uses parables or slave and servants and then master doesn't mean he endorsed, simply meant he used a parable of what they could relate with that I can use a parable, for example, for. I mean if I use Chelsea in the parable, you won't in your dreams believe that I am endorsing the club. No, no, I can't. If I, if I use Chelsea for even Barcelona, you would think, are you okay? It's so simple. Because if I want to use an example of a club that they are into drinking, it doesn't mean. And I use Chelsea, it doesn't mean I'm endorsing drinking or the club because you know, they are their emblem is. I have the microphone. So. So it's not that he was. He was saying something here does know.

That's just what is available to explain. If you are God, you can't be anywhere. But if you are, what example would you have been using? All you have are sinful men you are going to have to walk through. And that's why I believe we should look at. That's why Paul says, oh, what the wisdom of the riches of the wisdom of God. He has to walk through parts that it's only God that can walk through it. I say that is the only way you can explain God's sovereignty. How in his graciousness he walks through weaknesses. Is his sovereignty, not this he can do whatever he likes concept of sovereignty. So if it was so. Therefore the context of the laws that Moses gave will have to be what was prevalent in his days.