Numbers 22 to 24. Then he sought the way of idol worship. So look at numbers 31, something Moses gave. Verse 17 to 18. Kill every male and lead once kill every woman that known man by lying with him. And all the women, children that have not known a man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves. We're going to explore that. So he says, touch everybody, but not the women that have not chosen to have illicit sex with you. So for the males, yes, because they were potential enemy threats in the sense of the anami. But the women, the reason he says, no, leave the women alone was because he felt, look, these ones did not constitute themselves as a nuisance to want you to worship, you know, idols.

So they were like, they were kept like POWs, what you can call prisoners of war, but don't forget now, people have said that. Well, when he said kill them to yourself, it meant that they should use them as sex objects. That is ridiculous. That is true. Too, too, too presumptuous. In Deuteronomy, chapter 21, verse 10 to 14, Moses had already given an instruction that when you take a prisoner of war, it mustn't be used as a sex slave or object. Jeremiah 21:10 to 40, 14, Read 14. The women and the little ones of the cattle and all that is in the city also, thou shalt take unto yourself. Thou shalt eat the spoil of thine enemies the Lord have given thee. And yeah, so it's basically as a prisoner of war and not as a sex slave. Again, let's recollect the war procedure.

The first thing is entity of peace. When there's no peace where there's war, you go all out for war. That's why the Gibeonites were able to make peace, because you can now understand what Rahab did. Oh, no problem, we're fine. Be at peace with you. And then there's nothing but those that made war. Wars were the ones they made wars with. Look at Joshua 11, 9, 19. I'll start from 18. Joshua made war a long time with all those kings. There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the heights, the inhabitants of Gibeonites, all others they took in battle.

For it was of the Lord to add in their hearts that they should come against Israel in the battle, that he might destroy them utterly, that they might have no favor, but that he might destroy them even as the Lord commanded. So you can see that there was the place of making peaceful offers, interest and all of that. Again, don't forget that the background of all this is idol worship. Okay, we have brought God, I brought you home. And then. And Paul will say to those who believe it's life. To those who don't believe it's what death. The cryptic imagery that Paul is using taking the wars, all of Paul's explanation about the preaching of the gospel are warfare terminologies beneath them. Life, death, condemnation. Don't forget that the Greek word for condemnation is to convict somebody for punishment. Punishment and death.

So when someone is condemned for not believing, that is behind that is a statement. In the background is the war like terminologies used in Israel. Hope you are learning something. So let's take one or two things then call it a day today. So critically is we said the language must be understood. The language and then the context of what was going on. I'll remind you again that war is part of the fallen world. It's still part of us today. That's why nations come together often to make entreaties. We have the weakest. Sorry, I take that back. One of the weakest is the African Union. I don't know what there. Well, they try to. But when NATO threatens you just be harmonizing. It's not fair. It's not fair. You don't say we don't care. You have to care.

I think I don't know which of the governments was there that United States brought their naval ship across Lagos just to. Just to oversee. They are threatening our sovereignty because they know that if you just. Just five of them they enter Lagos and they just say we are buying you over. And what all take America to make all of us subservient? Nothing. They just enter the city and then say no, I'm the governor of this state till now. They ask him, sit down, kneel down by the time they take over the military formations. And then they say, oh, thank God we are not Americans. Said, nope, American slaves. I mean, it's just the way it goes. So it shows that in our works there is just the same thing. Just that we have civilized war in such a way that we now have.

Those things are basically put under a lot of restriction. Let's take one or two things and then call it a day. So the concept of driving them out is another statement we must look at. What does it mean to drive them out again in our own world? It means to evict people from a place. That's the way we see it. But that language is more of dispossessing people of the land. Numbers 21:32. Numbers 21:32. Moses sent to spy out Jaza, and he took the villages thereof, and drove out the Amorites that were there. Deuteronomy 9. 1. Thou to pass over Jordan to this day, to go into possessed nations greater and mightier than thyself, cities great and fenced up to heaven. Jeremiah 11:23. Just put that in reference. Jeremy 18:14. Jeremy 19:1. Now look at Exodus 23, verse 27 to 30.

I'll just take a text there. I will send my terror ahead of you and throw into confusion all the people among whom you come. I will make all your enemies turn their backs to you. I will send hornets ahead of you so that they will drive out the Canaanites and the Hittites before you. I'll not drive them out before you in a single year that the land may not become desolate and the beasts of the field will become too numerous for you. I'll drive them out little by little until you become fruitful and take possession of the land. So driving out or taking possession is not wiping people off. It's expulsion. Okay. And not annihilation. The word dispossess is the Hebrew word yarash. Y A R a C H is used in Exodus 34, 24. Numbers 32, 21. Deuteronomy, chapter 4, verse 38.

And let this be in your mind. Genesis 3:24. Adam and Eve, they were not killed. Or Canaan, sorry, Cain in the wilderness. Genesis 4:14. Or David was driven from Israel by Paul. So Saul, 1st Samuel 26, 19. So the idea is not to kill people, how to cast them out? So to send out will just mean not to kill, destroy, annihilate. Leviticus 18, 24. Just other references. Leviticus 20:23. So it basically is not to annihilate people or to consume them. It's more of the land. And we have seen that it is systematic. It has to do with taking care of the idols, places of worship. We're going to see something fundamental here on Monday. And he says yeah, so it's not what is meant. There has more to do with cultural, theological and worship than with material substance.

So all the worlds must be viewed, you know, in their own world and in their own way. Like I said, and I'll just call it a day on this, that the Old Testament was those who we can call righteousness justified ones did not do anything to non combatants, non military people. No, it was basically war, which in today's terms is still justified within human civilizational systems. We looked at the women and children used that was just a phrase. It's not literally speaking. And then said the whole place was entirely destroyed or they drove them out. Had nothing to do with death. It rather to do with the possession of the place in question.

So we must keep looking at the language and we'll do that, continue that when we solve the language up to every war majorly we try to see as many as we can see. Then we come to the context of it which we have approach. Why then today was theology behind it. So the truth is we mustn't take it out of their world. It would be very dishonest and unfair to take something that happened 4,000 years ago and relate it as though it happened last year. You must relate it with what was happening in their world at that time. And like we said, conquests or lands were taken over by conquest. What you call Nigeria today, Lagos people will tell you histories of kings, nobles, wars fought here and there, civil wars, different wars.

America, Great Britain, France, Europe are all the products of wars claim lands. There's still somewhere in, I think South America, there's still under Britain or something because of war. They claimed the place and then till now they are finding a way to explain it. You know, I think so. I'll get details if I can. So the truth is it's part of the fallen world. There's no way we can divorce that from their day. So we look at different other world wars later on and approach it from that point so that we can now talk about God afterwards. Amen. Because to throw everything under the bus in the name of Jesus has come. Let's forget it is to have a lot of things unexplained.

But we must see first and foremost that they were typical worlds not different from what we see today the only difference is that these wars served by God. And today I don't think if anybody says they serve God and their military is strong, you are going to call their God evil. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/