That's the only people you can say they are learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. And he was mighty in words and deeds. Which means that he wasn't a backbencher in these studies. He was mighty in words and in deeds. The word wisdom there is the word Sophia. Insight. So Moses was a scholar. Of course, the background is that Egypt in those days was a base tune of education traits trace to them. One of them is the fact that when that commercial strength came in Genesis, they had a lot of, you know, they were able to go into all sorts medicine, couple of other things. So Moses was a scholar. He's a multidiscipline scholar. He said he was learned. The word learned is what pai Gao P A I D E U O which means to be educated.

He was trained like going from crutch to Ph.D. and became a professor. Hebrews 12:6. Hebrews 12:7 and 10. Second Timothy 2:25 Titus 2:12. But look at Acts 22:3. The same word was used for Paul under Gamaliel. I was brought up at the feet of and taught according to the perfect man of the law of our Father. So Moses was an elite. Schooled in commerce. Correct. Schooled in legislation. So when Jethro came, Moses was doing what governments do, was doing what pastors do. He will combine both a religious leader and a secular leader. But you know what? Even being a secular leader, he had the responsibility within through the secular laws. Yet teach the promise of Abraham giving to Abraham. Look at how Stephen described him further acts 7. So when he came to his Brethren, he was 40 years old. 40 Years old.

Acts 7:23. Look at the question they asked him. They said in verse 27 who made you a ruler and a judge over us? You know, that was eventually what he was. Who made you a ruler? Ruler Accord in the Greek a governor, a magistrate, a course aarchor or a George Diacasti D I K A S T E overhouse now you know, it was rejected then. That was what was accepted as the eventually. Acts 7:35. This look at Acts 7:35, these Moses, whom they refused, who made thee? Say, who made thee a ruler and a judge? The same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel which appeared to him in the bush. So look at some keywords. Acts 7:38.

This is he which was in the church, the ecclesia in the wilderness, which means those who are called out. And amongst them you now have those who are making laws, who are rulers, all of that, the angel which work in the Mount Sinai to the Father's oracle. So you have the church in the wilderness, those who are called out. So therefore he will make laws around worship, civil laws, criminal laws. So when the apostles were reading it, they understood the context. The question now should be, did is? Are human laws God's? Let me use this very loose phrase, perfect will. No. But are human laws something God can do nothing about? Yes. So what we are going to see in the laws of Moses is God's gradual incremental interventions.

So we will not do justice to the laws of Moses if we don't compare it to the laws prevalent in their world. Is this making sense? Is this making sense? A comparison therefore is necessary, because what it is you will have to take those people, like I said earlier in this series, in an a gradual way. We are still going to end up in the promise, okay, because we are going to speak around the promise. But what we have are human made laws. I believe strongly that those who have criticized the Bible from that tangent of the laws of Moses were being dishonest and unfair because the laws of Moses were to govern a nation. You will now see why it is both the law of faith and the law of sin and death.

So it will depend on the context, what was being spoken of and what was said. Am I making sense? Look at Galatians 3. So our attempt in this series is to be able to treat each law in his own world, in his own way. We must be able to do that. So Galatians 3. Now look at how Paul, now this is Paul he's talking about. I mean, the buha started from circumcision. Like I said, circumcision is a shorthand for obey the ceremonial laws, for justification. So now. But you and I know that. Okay, let me look at this instance. Somebody accuses you and he says, don't lose this part, of course, we'll build on it next week. And he says, you drove against traffic. Then you say, no, it is not. No, let me use something else that. They Bring you before a judge.

And then they say they arrested you. And he says, well, the way you built your house, you were not supposed to put it build more than a story building. He said no. The laws say. The laws state that I can build it at this part of the town. Say no. And then we get before it. And then the judge looks at you and says, let's say Moses now or any of so, oh, I ran too fast. They sit back and say, okay, now you are accused. And the guy says, oh no, no, it's not that area. His own area. He is allowed to build a house, a two story building. So you are now sedeka, right? You are now justified. You are justified based on the laws of the land.

So if the apostle says by what they could not be justified with the law of Moses. You need to understand which of the laws they are referring to. Because if the law of faith by Moses doesn't justify you are not justified. So it's the context that we must find the context. I just said that very loosely. So look at Galatians 3. Having said all he said, he now says Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law. Verse 13. For he calls everyone that hangs on a tree that the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ, that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Then he says, my covenant will suse all that. Now verse 16. To Abraham and to seed where to his seed where the promise is made.

He said not associated as many verses of one which is Christ. And I say that the covenant which was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law which was 430 years after cannot disannowled that it should make the promise non effect. So The Lord came 430 years after. Don't forget what is in the background of 430 years. Slavery, bondage, strangers, pilgrims, not in the land that was theirs. So you must understand what I said here is a short form of many things that 430 years must take you back to Genesis 15. Are you there? Are you following this within it, the history of how they got to Egypt at all. Then a pharaoh came up that didn't know, put them under bondage and all of that laws were given, stringent laws and you know they were, you know.

So it says the law which came 430 years after. The question is, did Exodus also have the promise? Yes. Did Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, did he have the Genesis promise? Yes. Did they have the Genesis law? Yes. The Genesis Instructions? Yes, but something was added because of what had happened between Genesis and Exodus. Do you understand? Good. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more promise. But God gave it to Abraham by promise. Therefore whereof serveth the Lord, it was added because of transgressions. Till the seed shall come to whom the promise was made, it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator. The word added there means he came by the side. You check all that. So he says.

Now a mediator is not of one, but God is one is the Lord then against promises of God forbid. For if there had been a law given that should have been given life, very righteousness you have given by the law. But the. Okay, let me stop there. So you have two words interchangeably used here or sorry, use in contrast, the promise, which is the word diatike here, same word for covenant again. When you have covenant in today's language is contract. But that's not the word here. And I think that the reason why it's that translation, because daiya is two. So it looks like two people are agreeing. No, no. We'll see why I won't use the word covenant in today's language. Because it means two people are together. I'd rather say God covenanted to do something. Not that people agreed. Acts 26:28.

So did I say that? Matthew 26:28. Sorry. Mark 14:24, Luke 1:72, Luke 22:20. This is the new covenant. Jesus said that in my blood. Acts 3:25, Acts 7 8. I'm looking at Paul's references now. There you have Romans 9, 4, Romans 11:27, 1st Corinthians 11:20, 25, 2nd Corinthians 3:6 and 14, Galatians 3:15, Galatians 3:17, Galatians 4:24 and Ephesians 2:12. Pay attention to what dartike. It's two words where you have the word titanic to put in place dire amongst between. The second word that Paul uses more often is where you have epangelia, where you have promise. He use that more often. But we'll come to it. Promise. Paul use that more often. Now you have the writer of Hebrews uses the word dartike 17 times. Hebrews 7:22 critically. Hebrews 8:6. Hebrews 8:9, Hebrews 8, 8, Hebrews 8, 10. I'll take it again. Hebrews 8.

6, Hebrews 8:8, Hebrews 8, 9, Hebrews 8:10, Hebrews 9:4 2 times Hebrews 9:15 2 times Hebrews 9, 16, Hebrews 9, 17. Hebrews 9:20 Hebrews 10:16 Hebrews 10:29, Hebrews 12:24 Hebrews 13:20 and of course you can now add the Revelation 11:19. Let me take it again. Hebrews 7:22 Hebrews 8, 6, 8 and 9 and 10 or Hebrews 8:6, 8, 9:10 Hebrews 9:4 twice Hebrews 9:15. Hebrews 9:16 Hebrews 9:17 Hebrews 9:20 Hebrews 10:16 Hebrews 10:29 Hebrews 12:24 Hebrews 13:20 so the writer of Hebrews uses the word more even in a single letter than Paul in all of his letters. Whereas Paul focused more on the word epigelia to make a promise which is a self fulfilling commitment. I'll run through it for you. In the book of Romans 8 times, 1st and 2nd Corinthians twice, Galatians 12 times, Ephesians 5 times, follow 2nd Timothy twice.

There's another word that you also find permanently used pro epagello to say before it happens. A promise. Jesus mentioned it in Luke 24:49. Promise of my Father. Acts 14 same thing. Acts 2:33. The promise of the Father Acts 2:39 Peter, prophet of the Father the promise Acts 13:23 Paul Acts 13:32 Paul Acts 26:6 Paul and a reference that has nothing to do with the word. Acts 23:21. I'll take that again. Okay, I didn't mention Romans 1:2 is, by the way, but you have Acts 24:49, Acts 1 sorry. Luke 24:49. Take that again. Acts 1:4, Acts 2:33 Acts 2:39 Acts 13:23 Acts 13:32, Acts 26:6. Now both. Both diateke and epangelia or pro epangela. They are same thing, just synonyms. So the question is, let's look at the verb. The verb diatme is oftentimes in today's language is used for a will.

A will is not what a father and his son makes for the son to inherit. A will is what a father grants the son by an act to grant. So you will see beside the word diateke is the word diatomi, the verb D I a t I t h e m I Acts 3:25 which the Acts 3:25. The covenant which God made with which God granted to our fathers. So let me explain it. Covenant is two people, but it is a grant of one person. It's used two because one person is giving the other, but it is actually the act of one singular person. Let me see how you understand that. Is that clear? It Involves two people, but it is the grant of one person. Diathemy. Diatomy. Which he made. Hebrews 8:10. I will make a covenant. Hebrews 9:16. Testator.

The word testator, the maker of a covenant is called a testator. Hebrews 9:17. Hebrews 10:16. So God is the testator. He makes a covenant. It's not an agreement. No, it's not an agreement. It is a grant. I'll take it again. Acts 2:25. To make a covenant. Acts. Sorry. Hebrews 8:10. To make a covenant. Hebrews 9:16. To make a will, a testament. Hebrews 9:17. A testator. Hebrews 10:16. To make a covenant. So God is the testator. In that context, we see it as just two people. So it's not a contract. It is a grant to another person. A grant from God to Abraham. So now let us quickly run to Genesis, because That's key. Genesis 15:6. Abraham believed in the Lord. It is counted to him for righteousness.

And when you now go to Exodus, which is swore to our fathers, but you know, we can actually say to Abraham, are we together? All right. Now to Abraham. And Moses now gave Abraham a background. But why does he give Abraham a background? We've already said that when a book is written and a major character emerges, but there was a prior story, is either you are doing a comparison or a contrast. So Genesis opens up with Adam. Then we now begin to see contrast. Abel came. Then we saw Enoch, Methuselah, Noah, his children. Then we also saw Abraham. And the Abraham story begins from Genesis 11, 12, 11 and 12. And the Abraham story ends in the book of Revelation.