Which means that the focus on the person of Jesus inspires ministry. And ministry also inspires it. Now let us see a system of writing. Yes, it's Roman in origin, but it is inspired by the Old Testament writers. Paul will open up a letter by saying, paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ. Then he'll say, call an apostle. Then it says, grace and peace from God the Father. Look at one of the prophets. Let's see Isaiah, the introduction. The vision of Isaiah. Isaiah 1:1 the son of Amos. That shows you it's a revelation. Then verse 2 Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. Intro the Lord Jeremiah 12 to whom the word of the Lord came in the days of Josiah. Ezekiel, Verse 1. I saw visions of God. Verse 3.

The word of the Lord came Expressly call that the Logos of the scriptures. Hosea Hosea 1, verse 2. The beginning of the Word of the Lord By Uzziah Nobody was writing newspaper reports. Haggai okay, sorry. Zephaniah Abacuc no, I've skipped. Joel 1:1 the word of the Lord that came to Joel. Amos 1:1 the word of Amos was among the earth. Verse 3. Thus saith the Lord. Obadiah 1:1 the vision of Obadiah thus saith the Lord God. Jonah 1:1 now the word of the Lord Micah 1:1 the word of the Lord Nahum the burden of Nineveh the book of vision of nahum God is jealous. 1:2 Abakuk 1:1 the burden of the Habakkuk the prophet did see Habakkuk 12 O Lord, how long shall I cry? Zephaniah 1:1 the word of the Lord which came to Zephaniah. Haggai.

Haggai 1:2 Thus speaketh the Lord of hosts. Zechariah 1:1 came the word of the Lo. Then Malachi the burden of the world was lost to Israel by Malachi. Consistently, that intro is at par with the epistles. A direct reference to the Logos of the Old Testament. A consistency. Look at all the writers of the New Testament. James says, I, servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, Hebrews 1:1, a hundred times in divers manners, the Father spoke unto the first of the Father by the prophets. God as this lightly spoken in his Son. So that introduction is a systematic theology. The Psalms, the Torah with the audience. What does the word of the Lord seek to do, to reprove, to convince and to judge what is in the epistles? Same thing.

You see that the word Abba and the word Logos, when you translate them, they are one and the same. That is, this is the summation of what God has to say. When you say the word of the Lord, then you break down that letter. In the Old Testament you see different contexts, judge promises of deliverance, warnings, you know, exhortations, instructions here and there in different context. But we can bring all the worlds together and see similarity. Let me see if you understand that. So therefore, the epistles. Now let's look at some phrases. Excellent phrases, but should be carefully used. Be loud where the New Testament is loud. Be silent when it's silent. Well, should the New Testament be silent where the Old Testament is loud? How would that sound? Will it be interpreting it? We said no. No. See, that statement is not evil.

You know, what it simply means is that the New Testament, the epistles are brought the Old Testament closer home. It's not that there are certain things that are there that are not here. No. The worlds are different, but theology is the same. So. We must therefore, as able students of Scripture, be diligent enough to see the Old Testament in the pages of the New and vice versa. Like I said, in the foreground of the Old Testament writings is the New Testament. In the background of New Testament writings is the New Testament. Why do they differ? They don't differ. If two events that are similar in concepts happen at different times, you will need to unify them. They don't contradict. The events only differ. The immediate context only differ. The audience only differ. But it's from the same Spirit. Then theology is the same.

So Jesus is the authority of Scripture. And proper interpretation will glorify Jesus. Put this down critical. That means I must find theological content in its historical context. History without theology. Pay attention. History without theology is a misuse of the Bible. Theology without history is teaching things out of context. Can I in all fairness fix the epistles of without the historical context of Israel? Is that possible? Is it possible? No. Can I teach the history of Israel as the only context of Scripture? No. I must therefore walk through the history of that Nation, the fulfillment of Jesus. And in my world today, I must not separate them. So let this guide me that the Old Testament, even the epistles, were written for me and not to me. It has its own sociological, historical background, but with a similar or semblance or unity of theological content.

Look at an example. You know, if, for example, let's look at phrases and what they mean. When Peter, okay, look at when Jesus said Jesus was eating with the Gentiles, with sinners, you know, your opinion will be, you know, eating with sinners was the big deal, you know. And you now think that Paul contradicts Jesus in First Corinthians 10 when he says, if the unbelieving bid you to come, go, don't ask questions, you. Well, why. Why is he. Why is. Why is there. I mean, sorry, he contradicts the Old Testament. I want to say. Now look at this. When the Jews say eat together, your mind goes to Exodus that eating together shows that you are family. So it's not the food he's referring to, but to associate, to identify.

That's why when Paul, sorry, Peter went to the house of Cornelius, they said he went to eat with the Gentiles, and we didn't see any record of food. So it is a phrase for identification, to show that we are family. So knowing that historical context, First Corinthians 11 becomes clear to me when he says, when we come together to eat the lost supper, that will mean a love feast, to eat together. It can actually mean to sit together, to write together in today's world. And then he says that there are those who are hungry, you leave them that way. He says, are you not judging? Are you not eating to your own condemnation? That is, by being selfish, you have judged against yourself because you are brethren. So let me tell you how you read it wrongly.

When you serve the communion and they sin in your life. Excuse me, do you know the historical context of the Passover? Have you seen the complexion of death? That nation that left Egypt, do those ones look like innocent people to you? Imagine forgetting that narrative and coming to punish us in Lagos. Check your life. Check your life as is punishing people. Why? Because you have not gone back to that world. So everybody now sits down, they pray over bread and wine. Whereas what the writer is saying is, if you will not share food, if you will not give yourselves things and not be selfish, then don't have anything to do with material things or food in your garage. Say it at all. But the moment you bring it to the service, he said, you Must wait for one another.

So he proceeds from there to the gifts. Talks about edifying, considering the other person. There is no way you can explain First Corinthians 11 without the context of Exodus. There is no way. So we are left with circumcision. For example, when the Jews say circumcision. Now when I see circumcision, Sandra, for us it's the only four skin of male in the. In the female realm. It has become a cause for ivf. Is it IVF now? What do you call? Is it? I've VVF also. Yeah, vvf that is. Yeah. But the point is you need to look at the. You can see the practice. But what is theology there? The theology was. And Moses said it, he said, be circumcised in your heart, which simply means cut a covenant or have a relationship with God on your heart is there in the Old Testament.

So when I come to the epistles and I see the word circumcision, I go back to the context, a physical, symbolic demonstration of. Of something that should happen in the heart. So in my world today, circumcision cannot be removing the false king. It has to be symbolisms and things that are done in lieu of a spiritual reality. So I must know very well that the audience of the first century church, the church that Paul founded, the context of their teaching was the Old Testament. And the context of the Old Testament is historical. I must find out, Okay, I wrote this down. You mustn't separate history from context. The moment the history is absent, the context is missing. History simply means go back to the Old Testament, read it backwards. So look at Moses. We're going to see something about Moses, then look at Moses.

Moses must have heard. Now, initially I thought that The Moses, Genesis 1:3 was a vision, that he wasn't there. So God showed him a vision. That's half truth. What broke that prism of thinking is, okay, so that means God showed him how many chapters? 50 Chapters. And by the time you found out that many of the stories are in legends of other religions or a few of the stories, so it shows you that what happened was Moses. And if you look at Exodus, there was the oral tradition, the way the Hebrews. And we'll look at Ibrahimism in a moment. The way the Hebrews brought up their children was they had a mode of education. The parents trained the children by themselves. Formal education was more with the other Near Eastern territories.

And the prime of them was Egypt, where you sat down, put it in literature, put it in genres, put it in grammar and then started to study other things here and there. You know, people learn things more by art. And the Chinese culture began as far back as Genesis. I have materials that traces that authenticates. And this shows. This is beautiful, man. This shows that the grown norm of the Chinese culture was the worship of Jehovah. So pay attention here. Therefore, what did Moses simply do? There's an oral tradition passed to children where they are taught about Jehovah, his promises, his statutes, which we've seen in Genesis 26 and 5. Then he goes to school. Then he says, it's like, let me give you an instance. Your dad is a herbalist. And he correct one not.

And he say voodoo Mano, a herbalist, he kills people. He'll just go into the forest, take a leaf, give somebody that has addicted the thing will go and all of that. So everybody in your family, they knew that when you have headache, they sleep. They can call it go and take it. They can say this one, go and do that one. So you don't have the privilege of going to school or somehow, just like Moses, you are mistakenly adopted into a rich family. So you now took you to Harvard. You now go to Harvard. And when you go to Avad, they now explain those things to you that these are. What did you call it? A place where Yahweh is worshipped. And Jacob said Bethel, the place of God. He didn't build anything. The house of God. Oh, nah, nah. It's called temple.

They worship idols. Okay, Tabernacle. They now give you the grammatical meaning of temple and all of that. So you now say, you now talk about children of good and evil. This is where you do this life is this. They say serpent. Serpent. You now go back to your traditions and rework it in an educational format. We follow what I'm saying here. So the story of creation, okay, he is a legend. He now takes that story and there is. The Hebrew culture will pass across the story of creation to their children. He now says it's time to teach you about God, to give you the promise. So what is he going to use? He will use the same oral tradition and rework it around very intellectual or genres which are found in Egypt. They were in Egypt.

So it takes what you can call commonplace, illiterate knowledge. Allow me use that and put it in an academic format. So it will use images. He will now say, just like God created the seed, you know? Seed, yes. You know, when you put a seed down, it will bring forth food after. I don't need the Bible to Know that I don't need the Bible to know that the moon is at night, the sun is at the day. No, I don't need the Bible to know that the fish is in the water. I know that he says God created it. But then when he comes, he's going to use the word seed. Nations as water, seed as human beings. He's going to use the word sun. He's going to use moon. He's going to use star in all his writings.