The Lord will pass through to smite the Egyptians. And when he sees the blood upon lintel and the two side posts, the Lord will pass over the door and will pay attention. Will not. Can you see it now? Did you see it? Will not suffer the destroyer to come into your house to smite you. Wow, so right. In Exodus, the Destroyer was mentioned. So what the Lord passed through Egypt to do was to protect from the destroyer. But because he was present, his name was also mentioned. Now, some have said that God has two kinds of angels, those who carry out the good and those who carry out the evil things. That's preposterous. Nothing of that order will even make sense. Again, we are still referring to early Jewish writings. The book of Jubilees 49, 2, 3.

For on this night, the beginning of the festival, beginning of the joy, you were eating the Passover in Egypt, when all the powers of Methzema, used for that evil being, had been let loose to slay all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, even the firstborn of Pharaoh, to the firstborn of the captive maid servants in the mill and to the cattle. This is the sign which the Lord gave them to every house of the lintels which he saw the blood of the lamb of the first year into that house they would not enter to sleep, but should pass by it. And all those who should be saved that were in the house, because the sign of the blood was on his lentils. Jubilee 49, 23. Now, basically what he's saying is this, that in the early Jewish writers, we today use devil.

They didn't use devil. Like we have seen. The book of Job had Satan the accuser. You know, we also have the destroyer. They use different terminologies to explain the same thing. So what hid Satan in the Old Testament was grammar, not God grammar. That was how they spoke, that was how they wrote. It is believed by one of the Jewish writers that Samael is the head of evil angels who slew in Egypt. Historians, one by the name of Thomas Macrea said that the Jews called the angel who went through the land of the fearful location Samael, or the Destroyer. According to Exodus 12:23, the angel that had the power of death for a night, and it was prevented by the appointed means from touching the firstborn of Israel. But the devil has been a murderer from the beginning and Christ are passed over.

So they had known all of that, you know, in their own writings. You know, the Old Testament books that we read today is called the sacred writings. So the Targums Are like commentaries of their days, different books. They are commentaries. They don't hold the same authority like the 39 books. So looking at the commentaries of the 39 books, it's clear that Satan was not hidden. The language was just different. Look at numbers 11, Verse 33. While the flesh was yet between their teeth ere it was chewed, and the wrath of God was kindled against the people. And the Lord smote the people with a great plague. So we have instances like this that says God smote them.

Now, in the rule of literature generally when you are reading, it is believed that you had read Genesis, you had read Exodus, and you had seen where even though the Lord was used, his actions were not mentioned. So it's incumbent on you to make the same, you know, conclusion. Look at number 16. Number 16. And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, get you up from among this congregation that I may consume them. As in a moment they fell upon their face. Watch this. And Moses said unto Aaron, take a censer and put fire therein from off the altar and put on incense and go quickly to the congregation and make an atonement for them. For there is wrath gone out from the Lord. The plague is begun. And therefore. Please listen to this. Very well.

Oh, and Aaron took as Moses commanded and ran to the midst of the congregation. And behold, the plague was begun among the people. And he put on incense and made atonement for the people. And he stood between the dead and the living. And the plague was stayed. He stood between the dead and the living. So we have found Aaron practically. Stop it. He stood. He stood between the devil and what he was. You can call that casting out of demons. So the mention of plagues, there is not to in any format say what God will do or the wrath of God. The wrath of God simply means God is not in this. So to put God in it, do this. To do what? To stand between the dead and the living. And stop what? Plague had already begun.

Imagine if God is as maniacal as we think and is very powerful. Why would Aaron simply just stand between, bring the censor and stop God from doing what he wants to do? This is the reason why in Genesis. Is it 19 now? 18 And 19. I'll go to Sodom. I want to destroy Sodom. Can I hide this thing from my friend Abraham? Go. God, knowing that Sodom was going to be destroyed, told Abraham what to do to stop it. So the Jewish language never permitted that. Okay? That. That mode of writing never permitted the way we use verbs today. This is a Challenge we'll keep facing. But just like in this case, we read now, if all we do or all we ever do is to read the story within context, we will know who did what. We'll find Moses the intercessor.

In fact, the way we used to preach intercession back then, and it got me curious at some point was that God wants to destroy a place. So God says, well I want to destroy this chair, you know. And then he tells somebody what he wants to do so that the person will not make it happen. That is he braze him at his height. What in today's language should be God seeing cognitive tenses what will happen? Or let's be like I will destroy Sodom. In today's language I see Sodom destroyed Abraham do something about it, pray. Then he sends messengers there who were mocked. But in Ibraism it is I will destroy rather than I see Sodom destroyed. So we therefore must read contextually.

So I used to think intercession was God will just call it we are in the desert of the land and we say what are we doing? We say we are stopping the hands of judgment and justice and bringing the hand of mercy. Then the question is on whose hand is the mercy and judgment? We say it's from God. So this is why this lack of understanding has presented either a God with dualism or something. The atheist I don't understand what you are talking about. How can the same person who wants to do evil be the one appointing men to stop it from happening? It's like Yoruba saying hold me, I don't want to fight. Again we are faced with Ibraism, use of their words and their entomology.

So no doubt any Jewish writers, the Tagum, the wisdom of the Wisdom, the book of Jubilee and other writers, we're going to add a few more we've seen that they didn't see that way. So it's not just that Jesus shows up, then begins to interpret it, you know, and all of that. No. So if we say Jesus corrected our view of God, as correct as that statement is, it also means that because it's closer to our world. So before you go to any other issues want to look at. We have seen the pre New Testament writers that they even had a name. Samael Bean added another one Maxima. They had a name for angel that wrecks havoc. They had a name for diverse. I mean Daniel also mentioned how the Prince of Persia though that has a bit of different interpretation.

Not different, but careful that the priest of Pasha endured The angel. And then Michael came to his rescue. Because the term Prince of Persia also many times refers to an earthly king and also a spiritual being. It gives a kind of double connotation. Okay, walking through a man this so and so. What about things said after Paul now? Why am I saying this? Because in Paul's days it wasn't like the letters were in circulation to be this authoritative as they are today.

So in Paul's days, what we call the early Church Fathers, we have a man called by name of origin O R I G E N. Who obviously reading from the Old Testament, said, if anyone, however, who has leisure of examination of the sacred writings will collect together from all sources and form into one body of doctrine what is recorded concerning the origin of evil and the manner of his dissolution, he will see that the views of Moses and prophets regarding Satan had not even been dreamed of either by Celsus or any one of those whose soul has been dragged down and turned away from God and from right views of him and from his word by this wicked demon. In other words, he's saying that if you reprobate the words of Moses, you will have seen that they deciphered who the devil was.

Thetolian defending Christ's claim, said otherwise he would actually be the author of error and the prevaricator of truth, contrary to the character of the good God. So early Church fathers, which we can say, you know, those to whom Paul must have handed over ministry to Timothy, John never thought that what was happening was that they were only remodeling God. No, everybody knew that they were reading the Jewish scriptures properly only in their own world. So it's oftentimes known and believed. I was. I'll. I'll call someone else. AthenaGrass A T E N A T H E N A G O r A S 133-190 AD 133-190 said this.

So also do we apprehend the existence of other powers which exercise dominion about matter and by means of it, and one in particular which is hostile to God, to the good that is in God, which belongs of necessity to him, and coexist with him to the good that is in God. I say the Spirit, which is about matter, who was created by God, just like all the angels were created by him and entrusted the control of matter and the forms of it. So he's referring to Satan as a particular angel who distorts what God has done. Of course, when you see the writings of Jesus for example, sorry, this the words of Jesus, Luke 4:6 and the temptation, John 12:31, John 14:30, the prince of this world, John 16:11, Ephesians 2:2, 2nd Corinthians 4:4 1, John 5, 18, 19.

Then you notice that he is referring to evil spirits that act like angels, just like Ezekiel 28 and the serpent of Genesis 3:1:7. So the question I'm going to ask, has there been a warfare between God and the devil? Yes, through man. To not foresee that Satan and God are focused on a same location, which is man, it will be totally ignorant. Tertullian, the one popularly called the inventor of the doctrine of Trinity, who lived between AD160 to AD225. They were very close. I mean, sorry, origin was closer to John, I think. Osirinus says that now when originated this mass malice of line, deceit towards man and of slandering of God, most certainly not from God who made the angel good after the fashion of his good works. Indeed, before reading his writing, indeed before he became the devil.

He stands forth the wisest of creatures and wisdom is of no evil. So in other words, what Moses tried to put out in Genesis 3, it will say yes. Even though this angel was made by God, he became a deceiver. So Paul will say, transformed into angel of light. So if you say God ordained the devil. No. Did God create angel? Yes. Did the angel become the devil? Yes. Now were there instances also in Paul's day and the time of Jesus to twist the narratives of the Hebrew Bible to make God look evil? Yes. So these writers on speakers were able to bridge that gap. Another church father, Tatian A.D. 120 to 180 says this. We were not created to die, but we die by our own fault. Our free will has destroyed us. We who were free have become slaves.

We have been sold through sin. Nothing evil was created by God. We ourselves have manifested wickedness, but we who have manifested wickedness are able to reject it. So from their writings, those early church fathers, it was without disputation that nobody carried the notion of God doing good and evil. Nobody did. Historically that concept was criticized. So whether we are looking at the Old Testament writings or pre New Testament historical writings, or post New Testament historical writings, there is no way that the Scriptures are used justly to present a dual natured God. Nowhere the Bible forbids it. History does not have it. That is the history of the Church does not have it.