All right, Luke 24 once again Luke's gospel 24 then he said unto them, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophet has spoken? Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin at Moses and all the prophets scriptures, the things concerning himself. Which means that we said well the word diamond implies the ability to interpret things within two worlds and retain the content of what is said, that is the number one knowing the meaning of what was said originally, which is we said the historical contextual facts of the things that have happened and bringing them to the context of your day which is what the dia menu is. So Jesus, of course we also mentioned that he spoke in Aramaic majorly and in his days there was more of a Greek speaking community.

So which means that they had to also cross the barrier of one language to another and then one world to another. So all that comes in Bible interpretation and Translations in verse 44 these are the words which I said to you while I was yet with you that all things must be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses, in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. 45 Then he opened the understanding that they may understand the Scriptures. So we said that 44 shows that there is an there's a predictive nature Old Testament text. Because if you can't say, I can't say, for example my name is Onoyeka from Ososa then you say it shall be fulfilled. No, that's my name.

But when I say something like and that house will be purchased or that land will be taken, what I've said, even if readily, I didn't put tenses if I say the house is mine, then you check the house and you see there's somebody else still there. My not putting tenses there doesn't change the fact that what I just said is predictive in nature. That's why the writer of Hebrews said what is mandate mindful of him, the Son of Man, that you visit him, that made it beautiful by the angels for a time and put all things under his feet. Then he now said, we see yet not all things under him. What he's saying is that from looking at when we look at the prophecy or the utterance and we look at the day, we say no, this must be predictive in nature.

In other words, you will always know that this is eschatological predictive when what is promised is not available. What is promised is not available. And we will see that in the Abrahamic covenant that it was predicted the nations of the earth. And all of that will be all of that. So you find the predictive nature where what is said you can't see means that it will be fulfilled. So by using plero see or plero in Luke 24:44, Jesus is saying, study the Scriptures in an eschatological way. Where we mention eschatology today, what people think is the Antichrist and how the world is going to one day burn with fire and brimstone. And it's interesting.

And when you look at the concept of the last days, which is in Joel 2, 28, the last day said God, I apart my sword upon all flesh, you discover that it is something that actually with a promise that is now fulfilled. So by the method of Luke 24, 25, 27 and 44, we said that Jesus firstly is Aramaic, then you have the Hebrew tongue, Hebrewism, then you have the Greek community. So you have to cross the language barrier. So at every time I like something, Blusher who said it at this point, I'm trying to remember, said that if you're a serious student of scripture, even if you don't want to take a course or something serious around Greek and Hebrew, he said it this way, I love it. He said, at least get other translations, those who have done it, some like me.

The reason why I don't use translations is because I don't need it. I really don't need it. Is when I want to do a fast job that I go and get transition, or worst case scenario, I want to just corroborate what I found out. So I just, okay, this looks like it. That's why there are some things, for example, that I remember one particular phrase I checked over 100 trans, only one, just one. And there are some instances that you wouldn't even see any transition, you know, and it's not any fault of theirs, you know, because the reason why some of us are able to translate today is because we have a lot of light from their own translation. So a lot of light has come. A lot of things you've heard, a lot of explanation have gone ahead.

So that also aids the way you interpret words. Why would you interpret a word like. Let me give you an instance. Look at how we have interpreted the word law. The reason why it is easy for you to accept it is because your mind has been open to a large extent to be able to say, okay, okay, I can see this clearly. So it's in that order that he had to cross the language barrier. And then as he crosses the language barrier. He will now bring the Exodus to their world. He will now bring the feast to their world. He will bring the exile to their world. He will bring the tyranny, the slavery to their world. And so the question is to find the corroboration in your world. This is just an aside.

It means that as the time goes on, while the substance of interpretation. The substance of interpretation will never change because theology is the same, the conclusion is the same, but the truth is the methods of interpretation must get wider, as wide as possible, as intense and exhaustive as possible, as the world gets larger in horizon, in languages, in culture. So we said that the teacher of the word is a translator, is an interpreter of Scripture. So Jesus does that. The eschatological importance. The question I was going to ask, I did type out a few things that I wanted to address. I'm going to add more to this in the next few days. I said I was going to ask this question. Is the New Testament still eschatological? It's a question that we must answer.

I believe, God, that by July, or even June if necessary, or July, we do a short book on. I'll title it God and the Pandemic. So that a very short thing. So if it happens again, you know, I wanted to say the next pandemic, someone said, they will say that you are. You are predicting evil, the world. It happens again. So we don't handle evil in a very funny way. I mean, one of the first things we don't realize is that it's a funny world, you know, in fact, this world is screaming with the blessings of God, is screaming like it's screaming literally, you know. But then that's for another time. So what we have here is that an interpretation that has to take. You have to look at the tenses, even though the tenses will not be present.

We said also that the Hebrew language. Sometimes I'll show you a few things as we proceed. You won't find a pronoun, but when you keep reading, you will know where the pronoun is supposed to be. So most translators have a lot to do with contextual study. They will say, okay, till you now put E the day you know, you must find out why it is so. Matthew 28:18. All authority is given to me in heaven and on earth. Again, how to understand that subject, heaven and earth is to begin to read the book from the. If you had read Matthew from Matthew 5, okay, and through to Matthew 7, the very. I call it the building block of the entire book where he mentions, of course, the kingdom of God in Matthew 4, 23:35 and kingdom of heaven is earned by John the Baptist.

You would think that the use of heaven is when people die. You will have seen consistently heaven and earth is used by God's desire of uniting with man. You have seen it clearly. So it says all authority in heaven and earth. That means that promised union of Genesis 1 and 2:1, verse 1 to 2 is now in me. Okay, so say and go therefore and make disciples of every nation. I will say making disciples. Matthew 2 is an educative phrase, which is that the church and you see, I said this earlier. The church of the first century, or what we call the early church, was a place of education and we're going to see Nehemiah now that the temple was a place where people go to school.

So even the illiterate, the knowledge they had that they can communicate, you know, read and write, like we say today was via the knowledge of scriptures. I'll say this to say therefore means initially I used to believe that, and I still do, that the preached word has preeminence over the written word. All my reasons are running out of reasonings. It is obvious that God actually wants people to know how to read. And I thought it was about our world till a bit of history showed me that much of the church of Paul's era, they learn to read in church. They learn to read because the reading of the scriptures itself is the worship of God. That's something to think about.

Now in Matthew and the eight go and teaching them verse 20, which is the diasco, another word that you must find the cognates of all over scriptures. There are some words that they work together. If you have righteousness, diacusune, you have diachao, diachus. They must, they must all you must work them together. And you can't drop righteousness. Can you see? Without the word promise. Are you following what I'm saying? Without faithfulness and without faithfulness promise, which can also be covenant. We'll see that shortly. Faithfulness, promise, covenant, Then you also have believing. Okay, Then you have just actions, just persons, all of that, they come together. So when you use Didasco, you must drive the other words along.

Didaskalia, didaskalos, didache, they must walk together, they must, you must, the teacher, the Daskale, the doctrine which is where you have the Torah, then you have the didache, the explanation, you must write them together. So wherever a word like that is used, all the culinary words, or call them the Cognate terms must be explained. Acts 2:42 they continue 7 the apostles doctrine didacte, Acts 4, 5, 42 and all of that shows you in practice what they did. Nehemiah chapter 8, verse 7 to 8. Joshua 18 this book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. Thou shalt meditate there day and night, and observe to do all that is written there. And then thou shalt make thy way prosperous and have good success. Nehemiah 8:7 the be part caused people to understand the law and the people stood in their place.

I read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the writ. Now don't forget that these are millions of people. Now of course Bible language, when you see thousands in that day when the Bible was written, there were no millions in measurements and gauges, no. So where you have thousands, yeah, thousands existed. So because they stopped at thousands, you now wear a multitude or many thousands. Then you may be talking about millions. So therefore let's now look at the Abrahamic though we said that Paul used the word promise, which you know, you know, you can interchange covenant promise. Can we? Can we Old Testament, New Testament, can we? Covenant promise.

So therefore it is should be submitted that even though Paul didn't use dartikimor like others do today, the word darthiki, which is the word covenant is presupposed by the use of the word epangelia, that is when you say promise and you say covenant, you are saying the same thing. So another one that you must drag along. When you use promise you must use covenant. When you use covenant, you must use promise that you drag them together, they explain each other same thing. When you say faith and you are referring to a man believing you must drag the faithfulness of God in. And when you talk about the faithfulness of God, so you must drag a man believing it, you mustn't explain one without the other. So I don't know whether I treated something. Let me just go back.

I'm not sure we've gone through righteous. Righteousness, Right. So that means the word promise is never in the plural, yet it has a plurality of application. It is a promise. Okay, but plural application will refer to the multi purpose dimension of that promise. The multi that's doing the right. Let me change the world for the purpose. Let me save the different layers of the same promise. That is this is what it does about this and all of that. So okay, Romans 4. Out of the back of your mind again that you are reading Let me say this to you. Look up please. Every time you are reading the epistles, what are you reading? The Old Testament, never forget this is fundamental. There was no innovation in the epistles. It's only interpretation.