There was something I didn't mention that day here, but I did say later on in the teaching, I want to talk about it now. It says in verse 32, now 31 is the first. It says by Faith the Allah Rahab perished not with them that believe not when she had received the spies with peace. Now, of course, the word faith has been given a background as touching the Old Testament events. Hebrews 10:38 and 39, Hebrews 11:1. Through faith, that is the faithfulness of God. And then our trust in says, oh, sorry, it's a faith or the faithfulness of God. Our trust in it is a hypostasis of things hoped for. I said the word. There's pragmatons, an event that will happen. So we must be able to link two events together by the faithfulness of God. Things hoped for, evidence of things not seen.

Pragmatone not seen. Blo. Pete said the other time, what is seen and perceived. So therefore, what the writer of Hebrews did was to take two almost unfamiliar events. Because when you read to Hebrews 12:2, it says, looking unto Jesus, the unto and finisher of the faithfulness of God, or the faith of God, Hereby we are participators by believing. Then he says, who for the joy set before him, sat down and write out of majesty on I a phrase that you should not have missed either from Hebrews 1:3, where he says he sat down, or Hebrews 3 and 1 we have seen the high priest and the apostle going to the heavens. Hebrews 4:14, Hebrews 8:1 and all of that where we find Jesus is seated, he has sat down, he has gone up into heaven. Then he begins to relate until now unrelated events.

Abel offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. By the faithfulness of God, that is in view of Christ. Christ sitting at the right hand of God. Abel offered the sacrifice of Jesus. Then you mention Enoch. In view of the sacrifice of Jesus, Enoch was translated, you should not see there. In view of the sacrifice of Jesus, Noah built an ark and saved a few. In view of the sacrifice of Jesus, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob dwelt in tents and in strange lands. Sarah was she conceived a child. And you go into Isaac was born. Then you get to Joseph, sorry, Isaac, then Jacob, then Joseph, how he blessed his children. Then you have Moses, how he was born and eat all. In view of a future event, that is. He therefore uses the Old Testament stories as a cryptic explanation.

He sums them up and says, take the ark out of the whole story. Take the Tanjandra used to take the offering of Abel out of the whole story. Take Isaac's birth out of the whole story. Take the attempts out of the old story. Take the stars out of the whole story. Take the way Isaac was offered out the whole story, take the issue of Jacob out of the whole story, take the issue of Joseph out of the whole story, take how Moses has the whole story and then it becomes a relevant event to what has happened now in the death of Jesus. So our ability to read the experiences together in the light of the fact that the experience we are linking with the perfect work of Jesus are imperfect things. Whatever Abel did wasn't perfect. Whatever happened to Enoch wasn't perfect.

Whatever happened to Noah was not perfect. Whatever things that Abraham dwelt wasn't perfect. That's why he sought a city whose good and maker is God. Whatever child Sarah gave birth wasn't perfect and all of that. So we are going to use the imperfect, weak things of this world, all right, to explain the wisdom of God that happened in Christ. So that is the system and again, a technique of reading the Old Testament. So you are going to find some extremely imperfect scenarios, some a bit imperfect scenarios, some partial imperfect scenarios. But they are going to have one scientific singular thread. They are going to be imperfect explanations, imperfect experiences. It's critical that this dawns on us very quickly. So, and now of course, some scholars will call it typology, some will say it's a shadow.

Which we said on Saturday that when Moses was going to build a tabernacle, for example, he did not see a vision. People get the mistake. No, tabernacles were already used in Egypt to worship idols. So by what he sees about Jesus, what can he use today to explain Christ? He will use the shrines that idols normally use in Egypt to say one day God is going to dwell in you and you have perverted it into idol worship. You know, we have said that idol worship is a deliberate disobedience and call it rebellion against the gospel. So therefore that means the shrine is a rebellion or a rebellious attitude. So he takes from their rebellion, which is a shrine for idols, and explains God's perfection in Christ. Now that looks very simple because you can relate with that.

But by the time you go to things that you don't really like wars, you begin to question, but it's the same pattern. You are going to use the very imperfections of man in their world to look at the very end of what God will do in Christ Jesus and the world will follow the same pattern. So what the writer of Hebrews has done is to link very imperfect scenarios. The way Moses was born, the way he went first, went to the desert, came back after 40 years, and then they cross the Red Sea, Egyptians are Said to cross and he died. So all these are imperfect scenarios that point to a perfection. Imperfect scenarios. None of the things that happened before the death of Jesus are perfect scenarios. They are all imperfect scenarios. They are all.

They all show what we have said in the Paul's letters. The first foolishness. What are you talking about? Wolfing animal? What is about an ark? What are you referring to? A child was born. So what's the big deal? Looking at stars? Oh, okay, yes. They cross the Red Sea and all. So a lot of imperfect scenarios. And then he says that in verse 39 they obtained a good report but did not receive the promise. God having provided something, the better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect. So we have to keep our eyes on the ball. At the very end is where we have a perfection. We're going to have a. We're going to have God walk through imperfect sins. Just like. I'll give you the example.

Just like in Genesis 17, where he walked through Abraham's offering, where he had daughter loaves and all that, and he passed through the fire, God is going to walk through human innovations. The aspect of. Listen carefully now. The aspect offering sacrificial animals is a Near Eastern religion. But you now ask a question God still worked with was an imperfect scenario. It was a man made creation, okay? And God still walked through it. And so it's all an imperfect scenario where we will see God in his wisdom. I don't want to use the word here, but let me use my own little understanding. Avoiding the landmines that were laden throughout history. Yet we find the story of the Gospel. And so the writer of Hebrews says, shall I say what else should I say? More time will fail me to tell of Gideon or Barak.

He says of Samson, Jephthah, David, Samson, Samuel and the prophets. Few folks that when you read their stories say time will fail him to tell us. The question is, does he really want to tell us the details? By the time you read all the details, you say what, you actually asked someone to kill everybody? These are the men he calls the men of faith. Then it says, who through faith subdued kingdom. We've examined all these words on Saturday and it says wrought righteousness, that's the key word this evening, which means to show dia kosule justice, to show what is just and proper. So the question we ask is, can you justify a war? Now you can say, well, you can justify a war as long as. Let me get to thinking.

As long as it is spiritual in nature, I don't think anybody will have a problem with casting out demons or getting born again and saying that your flesh has been killed. But then when you say a human being you know killed or was killed, then you raise an eyebrow. But now we not raise the thinking to say, okay, wait, what if a human being that was killed was trying to kill another human being? Then you say, it's justified. Okay, so what does the flesh seek to do? To destroy? What do demons seek to do or sin? To destroy? So the template of justice, whereby we deal with spiritual realities which are enemy in nature, is the same template of justice where the Old Testament men, as it were, in the flesh, prefigured in that same format, the sacrifice of Christ, which is perfect.

So we said, is it justified? Now again, look at this background. It says they obtained promises, stopped the mouth of lions, which again, is the writer of Hebrews using the lions here in a figurative term. Because if you look at the old story here, only too many are going to talk about lions with Samson and Daniel. Daniel was not even mentioned. What? Here it is, they stop the mouth of lions. And we said that in Scripture lions are used for persecutors and oppressors, those who came to attack you. So already he is classifying the walls to the ones that were justified, which means the wars that were justified were largely defensive in nature. They were to ward off attackers. And we said, in our world today, can we justify the army of a nation, defending it against, let us say, its territorial integrity?

Yes, you can be justified. What about those who seek whatever format to destroy people? Yes, it can be justified. Then it says, quench the violence of fire, escape the edge of the sword. Now look at the context. Out of weakness were made strong. And we said that the army was, look at it today. The army of Israel were the weakest. One of the weakest, if not the weakest in the whole world. Wax villains in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead, raised again to life. And others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trials of cruel mockings, scourgings wherever of bonds and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were stone asunder. They were tempted, were slain with the sword.

They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, it says, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in the desert, in the mountains, and in the dens and caves of the earth. He has written a crucial part of the Exodus to Malachi story that Israel was a wandering nation that was warding off its oppressors. So the context of the wars will be why was it fought? So we said on Saturday that we must stick with the why and not focus on the what. The what will always be imperfect things. Because. Because we said that wars are a crucial element in the fallen world. So the context is were they persecuted? The context is were they. No, I'm not saying every war was justified. We've not said that. But we must separate the wars.

Some wars were unnecessary, some were not to be to have happened at all. But we said in their war, how were things, territories claimed? The land we're in today was probably claimed by war. Everywhere we are in the civilized world today has elements of war. How lands were claimed, how men became nobles and kings. So he has given us an idea of why Paul will write, the weapons of our warfare are not canal. You know the reason for that? Because this is the end of the faith. This is the perfect tense of the imperfect nature of the things that they did. So Paul is writing from the end. The writer of Hebrews takes us to the history before he gets to the very end. Now, do not forget that on Saturday we had gone through some fundamental studies.

Now a whole lot of theologians and in case you need to also know, atheists will frown at what they call the bestial, offensive nature of the words of Scripture. We have said already that the grammar factor must be crossed. If you don't cross the grammar factor, you will have what a very renowned scholar has called surface reading of the Bible. You can't afford to read the Scriptures on the surface. So we must therefore investigate history. If you realize again that what we are studying is historical, it means archaeology becomes useful. Historical facts become useful. Books prevalent at that time become useful. Israel was not the only nation in the earth. Already we have seen that a Moses schooled in Egypt and Moses is responsible for a large number of foundational grammar vocabulary of Scripture.