You find gospel in Isaiah 52 black tidings. And then you also find gospel in Paul's letters majorly, which is a word used in the Roman Empire in the Greek world. If somebody goes to war, comes back to say, sends a messenger to say the war has been won, treaty has been taken. So every time you have Iwagelion, there are two wars in there. You have the EU which is good. Then the agelos, the messenger of goodness, or good things, or the good things with the messenger. So he calls the messenger primarily here, Jesus Christ, Romans 1:3, 4. Then by using apostleship, which is delegated authority, Romans 1:1, Romans 1:5 through to 7, it shows identification in the work of the ministry. Just like sonship, ministry is also by identification. Identification simply means to take your place in someone else.

So same thing goes with ministry where you. Ministry is where you have the ecclesiology, is involved in the ecosystem, pardon me, and the museology. So you have all those things mentioned in the very open. So. So you see that Romans 1 to 7 is the headline. Is the, is the. What is the headline of the entire book? It will be among all nations. I put that side by side. Matthew 28:19Amongst all nations. So you have Jews and gentiles and Romans 1:5, obedience for his faithfulness. So it shows you therefore, to be very careful of the use of the word faith in Romans, because the obedience of his faithfulness there will be verse one, the Gospel of God two promise before three through Jesus Christ, four, by his resurrection. So that shows you the faithfulness of God. So men will heed to his faithfulness.

They will listen to it and heed to his faithfulness. So that means you should be. Get utmost care, have utmost care in the use of that word pistol, another word that you have to unpack, that has a mobile meaning, depending on the context. Obedience of his faithfulness, Jew and Gentile, and all of that. So therefore, I said earlier that our methodology, therefore is very critical to the way we study the Old Testament and also the New. You can't study the old without the new, and you cannot study the new without the Old. They work together, as the case should be. But very vital is the opening statement which he promised before showing you that Genesis, this is just an expression can be useful. I said Genesis has the answers. Exodus has the problems, even though Genesis asked the problems too.

Where did the problem start from? You have to be able to have two corroborations, two places to corroborate each other. Genesis 2 and 3. Then you have Exodus, the Exodus and maybe with numbers, Deuteronomy, numbers Leviticus, Deuteronomy, numbers, Leviticus, numbers, Deuteronomy will now present for you the problems. So the answer is in Genesis. And looking at if Jesus listen now, if Jesus could do a dire menu in his world, the Jewish scriptures and Paul could do the same thing in Acts 20, 23, Romans 16, 25, 26, which means therefore that you can always find the background of the Scriptures in your world. The background is. So what is the background? What corroborates this background in my world today? So the core subject which want to start looking into this because we are just approaching it now, the core subject matter.

I guess the introduction has overwhelmed the subject, the core subject, therefore. So Romans would be like a guide. I submit that between Romans and I used to like Ephesians before, I still do. But between Romans and Galatians will stand the Pauline revelation more. But I'll pick Romans because Galatians is a confrontation against legalism. It's not wholesale like Romans. Romance is very full. It's. I think Al Ghibli is Paul's most complete letter. It's. What about first Corinthians? You know, I know charismatics would like. What about tongues? I mean, he didn't talk about tongues, you know, at all. What about 1 Corinthians 14? All of that. Yeah, it's there. But Romans is the. In fact, if you at all have a challenge interpreting Old Testament scriptures, Romans would be your pilot because this is where Paul talks to the entire nations of the world at once.

So that what leads us to the core. So you look at Paul as we talked about the gospel, which is again, the gospel is in today's world is what you share with an unbeliever. But Paul doesn't put it that way. Gospel is that promise fulfilled in the Old Testament, that eschatological promise of God in the Old Testament that is now fulfilled with us and which we are still fulfilling. So in Romans 1:16 says, I am not ashamed of the Gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God, untrue salvation. Again, don't forget that he mentions that whole power in Romans 1:4 that is talking about the resurrection of Jesus Christ is the core issue here unto salvation to everyone that believes the first.

So that means that you can see the Romans 1:5, everyone that believes, okay, and he says to the Jew first and then to the Greek for therein, that's the word. There is a righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith. The just shall live by faith. Of course, it's been almost taught that I say the just shall live by believing, which is how we have thrown that out. But we'll probably consider it again in the light of all of this. So that means the core issue that Paul uses here is the word righteousness. The Greek word darko sune dako zude sune S U N E. Now righteousness will be a, a core issue that Paul will tackle here. And it's not a new concept, it's an Old Testament concept. So now look at the concept of righteousness.

There are some things that the automatic concept in Paul's letters and the apostles generally that you can't but understand them. And it's good to not be into cliche or be cliche about them. Oh, righteousness and all of that, just say it in a loose form. So how important is the subject of righteousness? Paul says this, the gospel in verse 17. Therein is the righteousness of God revealed. Then it says from faith. So two things must be studied together, righteousness and faith. They are interwoven. Now if you take faith as believing, so you will be dumped into or you'll be boxed into the corner of saying righteousness or the Reformation thinking of righteous or justified by faith, which is a very that narrow prism I mentioned last week.

But when you say God's the righteousness of God, that shows you that Paul is only expanding a doctrine. Romans 1:1, gospel of God, Romans 1:2. He promised before. Okay, so what did he do? Romans 1:3, His Son came according to the flesh. Romans 1:4, raised from the dead with power. Okay, according to the spirit of holiness, you know, Romans 1:4, then the apostleship and grace for the obedience of faithfulness. Obedience of faithfulness. Now there's a school that thinks the obedience of Christ for our believing, that doesn't make any sense. It's our obedience or maybe his obedience in the faithfulness of God they work together. So if in Romans 1 and verse 16 it says 17 from faith to faith will definitely not be from believing to believing. Is that making sense? To be from faithfulness to faithfulness.

Which means that we need to study the subject of God's righteousness, which is the Gospel of God, which is the promise of God, you know, alongside his faithfulness. So please pay attention here. That means from the opening pages of the book of Romans, every time you see the word righteousness, you must have a bracket beside it. Promised righteousness or the good news, or the promised good news of his righteousness. So your thinking mustn't be, you must expand that word very well, because he had given you the intro that this righteousness is the gospel. It was promised. And then he says that promise was executed eventually when Jesus came and when he rose from the dead. So you have to unpack the words if you leave it in a term, and then you are just particular about that word righteousness without what it entails.

It entails a promise. It entails. I mentioned the promise, the gospel, it entails the faithfulness of God. So when you talk about the faithfulness of God, it says, the just shall live by faith without even going further. Live. There is Zaho, which is to come alive, which is the resurrection detail of Romans 1:4. And the just one or the just will be the Christ who is in that promise. So the just one comes alive by the faithfulness of God, showing you that in explaining the subject of righteousness, I must expand it, I must exploit it, I must unpack it to show all the elements involved hitherto. I must confess that a whole lot of theology around people that you know, I know is zeroing on the subject of I used to be a sinner.

Well, somehow you look at all those lovely songs we sing, who am I? So you are taken from a sinner to a saint. All you've ever done is forgiven. So you are declared righteous, which is not wrong, but it's to is like calling a car or seeing the steering wheels and thinking, that's the car, that's what you have just said. Or calling the seat of a car the entire car, you will be wrong to call it a part of a car. You could have had the car without the seat. But to narrow down the car to the seat will mean that you don't have an overall picture. One of the things that the last few years of my study of Scriptures has done for me is to have a bigger picture theology, not a narrow theology now.

So whenever you see righteousness now, I'm talking this way because we have had how many sessions now? 21. So we've had 20 sessions of introduction. Okay, so you have enough in your mind to understand what I just said now, that therefore it is God's faithfulness over the ages which he promised before. Then it says in the Holy Scriptures. That's historical. By mentioning Holy Scriptures, that is history. That's history. Biographies within wars. Come on, are we there? Wars, right? Disobediences, obediences, Are we together? Laws giving laws broken? Are we together? Kings and kingdoms. So when you say Scriptures, therefore, if you are teaching a Bible class, your work is expansive. You must therefore understand the subject of our righteousness. Through the Scriptures, through the events, through the biographies, through the autobiographies, through the wars, through the exploits, through just back and forth, slavery, bondage, exile.

It says there is the faithfulness of God. That faithfulness has to be from what he promised. So therefore, if he says to us that righteousness of God is when this is concerning his Son, who was made the seed of David according to the flesh, so the righteousness of God will become lucid in the four Gospels. And because we have that thinking of righteousness being holy, I was a sinner, now I'm a saint, my sins are forgiven. We often don't see the four Gospels as the picture of that righteousness. But Romans 1:3 has said it's the picture of that righteousness where he was made the seed of David according to the flesh. So the picture of righteousness is the four Gospels. Okay, then raised from the dead. Okay. Romans 1:4.

By the Spirit of holiness, by the resurrection of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead. So let's do a study through the concept of righteousness. Like I said, it's like you have a car and you say, this is the car. And I say, what are you talking about? Then you show me a seat in the car. I'm saying, no, yes, this is part of the car. But to talk about the car, you need to talk about different kind of things that are in that car. So let's go through Scriptures and see whether it's a narrow prison to think righteousness in that light. Matthew 3. I'm just going to. Because we go through all the words of righteousness, we might take too much time. But I will look at the commentaries of Jesus about the Son of righteousness. Matthew 5 or Matthew 3.

Sorry, that's the first time you see the four Gospels. Put in mind that Mark came before Matthew. But. And Mark doesn't have the statement at all. Matthew 3:15. Suffer it. So for now. Thus it become us to fulfill all righteousness. This is the baptism. Now what is what echoes in your mind when you see baptism? That is the Exodus, the Red Sea, Right? Right. Come on. Are we together? So what will echo in your mind is the Red Sea. So what you have will be the Red Sea. Which means that by that statement, Jesus is of course, by John, you know, already using the river Jordan, you know, you can't take them to the. You can't, definitely cannot go to the Red Sea. You know that in Bible history, the River Jordan played the same role of the Red Sea.