So you can see what Moses is driving at. He's telling Israel there's nothing different in what I am telling you to do, apart from what Abraham has done. So this is very fundamental. In other words, what happened to Israel happened to Abraham. And you are going to see also, just like Israel had an Exodus, Abraham had the same. And therefore, if we have read the story of Abraham and we have seen that Abraham wasn't a moral giant, it therefore suffices to say that the issue with Israel was not primarily morality. So Abraham wasn't a moral giant. Yet here we have statutes, charge commandments, laws which can all collapse into one statement. Faith. You obeyed my voice. Faith. You can collapse it into one statement, which is faith. Genesis 15:6. Abraham believed God. It was counted to him for righteousness. Abraham believed God.

It was she served a man. It was counted to him for righteousness. Three keywords that never came up elsewhere until now are. Moses was very deliberate. He waited to Abraham to use that word. Abraham believed God, a man to trust. It was counted to him. It was put in his account and reckoned as Seneca, somebody who has done what is right. So, and in saying that what he has done is to keep the status, the charge, the commandment, it means that the issue with Israel was faithful. Romans 4, 3 Galatians, chapter 3 and 4 will explain all that for you. Abraham believed God. What? What was found of Abraham? What was found of Abraham? Righteousness to faith. Therefore, in Genesis 17 also you see that before Moses talked about circumcision law, there was circumcision already done. Abraham.

So right before we get to the offering of Isaac, we need to realize that Moses is writing to the nation that was carrying out sacrifices. And then the Isaac story here will therefore be a teaching in Israel to a rebellious nation that was every year offering animal sacrifices. Put that in the background. So Moses writes this before the law, or writes what had happened before the law. And once more way before the 612 laws, and the 612 statutes and etc. You have Exodus chapter 4 and verse 5, Exodus 4 and verse 5, that they may believe that the Lord God of our fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob had appeared unto thee. Exodus 14, verse 31. Israel saw the great work with the Lord did upon the Egyptians.

And the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant David. I'm Sorry, Moses. Exodus 19, verse 9. This is very key. And the people may hear when I speak with thee and believe thee forever. This was before the laws were given. So the issue was faith. The issue was faith. Just like with Abraham. Again after it was given. Numbers 14:11. How long will these people provoke me? How long will you be here? They believe me for the signs which I have showed amongst them. So we have unbelief. Numbers 22, Numbers 20, Verse 12. That is Moses and Aaron. You believe me not Deuteronomy 1:32. Yet in this thing you did not believe the Lord your God. Deuteronomy 9. 23. You believed him not nor akin to his voice.

So the issue in the Exodus and the issue in the first five books was a faith issue. So why did he give them Genesis? Because Genesis is about faith in the grace of God. It's not about 612 laws. No, it's about faith in God. Moses himself was rebuked for lacking faith. Numbers 20. We saw that earlier in Psalm 106, verse 32. To 33, they provoked verse three, a spirit, so that he spoke unadvisedly. What did he do? They angered Moses, so he went ill. He said what he should not have said, which was unbelief. So Moses himself was reckoned for unbelief at some point. Then you have. I don't want to expand that. I wanted to say something, but I won't expand that. So the issue with Israel was unbelief. The issue was unbelief. The issue with Abraham was faith. Isaac and Jacob.

So the issue with Israel was unbelief. So I must be able to see the story of Abraham and the story of Israel as one and the same. So look at Exodus 20. So Beckett, put this. Put this down very well. That morality was the second issue. It wasn't the issue of morality. Conduct was the second issue. The primary issue was faith. So look at Exodus 20:20. Fear not, for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may before your faces that you sin not. Put your hands there and go to Genesis 22. Don't forget we are writing to the same audience, Right? So every time he used sacrifice in the laws he gave them, he expected them to read Genesis and see what it meant. So look at Genesis 22, Verse one. It came to pass after these things that God did.

The same word prove Abraham. It's the same Hebrew word. I said unto him, Abraham. And he said, behold, I am. That's. That's what was taking Isaac. Look at verse 12. For now I know that you fear God. So did you see that? It's the same thing. Exodus 20:20. Who's following what I'm saying? Can you see it? Did you see it? So Abraham was proven that he feared God. The same thing happened in Exodus 20:20. We are talking about the same writer. Exodus 15:25. He cried to the Lord. The Lord showed him a tree. When he had cast into the waters were made sweet. And there he made for a demonstration and ordinance. And there he proved them. And it's the word test in Hebrew. NASA N A S A H. I should Also check Exodus 16, verse 4.

I will rain bread from heaven for you. And the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day that I may prove them whether they walk in the law. Also, don't forget at this point, this was before Exodus 20. So the proof or the proving will now be to replicate Genesis 22. Notice that the word here is to test. To test. NASA N A S A H and the word fear is the word Yahoo Y A V E. It means to have you in awe. To see and worship. To see and worship. So therefore, what happened to Israel was what Abraham did. Moses is saying what God is asking is what Abraham did. So in other words, we need to explore what does the word prove mean to test. It means this is for something else.

That is, I did this in view of something else. So Abraham we are going to look at. This is true of Israel. This is Abraham. Abraham is going to offer Isaac to prove. The children of Israel are going to. They got a miracle. They ought to do this. God is so that he will prove. So the two scenarios are together. So that they may fear him, they may worship him. Same thing with Abraham. So let's get back to Genesis 22. Account and then view Abraham closely. Open to Genesis 12:1 and Genesis 22. Now the Lord hath said unto Abraham, get thee out of thy country and kindred and from thy father's house to a land that I will show you. Genesis 22, Verse one. And he called unto Abraham and said, here I am.

And verse two, Take now your son, okay, Whom you love and get thee onto the land. Anything similar? Is it similar? Is it similar? So both of them have go. They also have land. Are you saying this? Are you following this? Okay. Now, the two. The two texts have the word alak, H A H, H a L a K, and the word erects, E R E T S. Alak means to go. But in contextual, Hebrew is the word leka. I'll spell it for you. L E K, L E K A. It means to go, which means that there was a distance, there was something I heard that was in view. At the back of your mind, just remember the Exodus, there's something I heard.

So if I'm asking you to do something for something I heard, and then I call it to prove, that means I'm showing you a latter event. So you have the word from word alak, which means go on a journey, or let's see this together. And it's about a land. Now pay attention. Okay, so which means that the first thing here is that it's a. It is a test. A test to see whether you believe something you have been told. It's like when you drive a car and say, let's test the car. It's not a negative word. It means to prove the effectiveness of the car. Now, it can come out negative if you now find unbelief. So which means that in the use of the word test, there are two scenarios merged together. One shows the other or one proves the other.

So what happened on Mount Moriah, which we are going to review in a moment, is, do you believe what God will do? One same thing in the Exodus, when God delivered Israel and took them through the wilderness, Again, is to show, do you believe this is what God will do in the two instances now, again, the context will now between Genesis 12 and 22, many things happened. Pay attention. In Genesis 12, the land was to be your seed, the whole earth. And then he talked about he will from him build a multitude of nations. So for a childless man, God therefore said to multiply him. So that means that something was in view. You can run quickly and say, the church, the body of Christ, you are correct. The thing now repeats itself on Mount Moriah.

Genesis 22, and we have seen the same words were used, which means that what he said, Genesis 12 against 22, is 1 and the same. So the land and your seed and it being multiplied, are one and the same promise. What he was being proven to see in Genesis 22 is one and the same promise. What happened in the Exodus was one and the same promise. If Isaac is not the promise, but Isaac points to the promise, it means that Genesis 22 can be explained. If Israel's deliverance was about a land. And God delivered them from Pharaoh so that they will know what he will do.

So we must be able to collect two events this happened in view of this, I've asked you to go to a land in view of a land I've asked you to offer Isaac in view of something that's going to happen. Let me see what I'm talking about here. So the two events are together. Don't forget the book of Genesis is Moses teaching the Israelites about God's promise. So within the period, we need to realize this, during Genesis 12, we had Genesis 15, we had Genesis 16 to 17. There was agar in the picture and there was Aga. And then Ishmael, which means along the line Abraham doubted. And then there was Ishmael. Ishmael wasn't a bystander. Genesis 16:1 4, check that out. Genesis 21, verse 9. Ishmael now began to mock Isaac. Genesis 21, 13, 12 and 13, etc.

They were now asked to leave. That's the background of Genesis 22. Now, okay, let me confirm whether you still believe what I told you. Do you understand it now? Do you understand it now? So along the line there was an Ishmael that brought about the Genesis 22 account. So what we are reading are imageries that prove faith or unbelief. Look at the statement again. Take your son, your only son. Now in the Hebrew the word here means I appeal to you, which is God actually was appealing. He was not demanding. That's why the writer of Hebrews in Hebrews chapter 11. And verse 17 by faith, Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac. The word he uses there is a willingness thing, something he did willingly. Look at verse two, Genesis 22, your son, your only son, whom you love.

Why did he say only the background is that there was already an Ishmael. So in other words, he's reminding him of the promise that he made. Who gave him Ishmael? God did. In fact, if you read Genesis 16, verse 10, I will multiply. That's Ishmael. He shall not be numbered for multitude thou art a child that bear his son. Call his name Ishmael because the Lord had heard the affliction. So it's not saying the Lord didn't give him Ishmael, but Ishmael was not the promise. So a decision was made between Ishmael and Isaac. When he now says your only son, which means that language is figurative. It means I am referring to what I told you. So the setting of Genesis 22 presupposes that the reader should read carefully.

If God gave him Ishmael and he called him his and listed your second son, your only son whom you love. So Moses is communicating God's redemptive plan, God's promise of the eret, the land he will give. Again, something instructive there is that he told him to go to the land of Mount Moriah. Moriah in the Hebrew is from the word Ra. It means to see, come and see. It means provision to provide. So when you see that Abraham got there and says, the Lord will provide for himself a lamb, it was just to again reiterate what that mountain was about. God will provide. So it means pay attention. The word Moriah, therefore are two words together. It means rak, Yah, what God sees and he provides. Yah. W. Sorry. Yah is used for God 48 times. Exodus 15, verse 2, Exodus 17:6.