And from the Hebrew is like somebody who has been warned again and again. Now what I want you to do is to look at the laws of particular. The ones that are most. Though we let. We dealt with the food laws the other time, the cleanliness and all of that. I want you to see it as a criminal justice system and lawyers here would understand what I'm saying that up till today, okay, there are a few nations that have stopped it, but we still have, you know, the penal system of many nations that includes death and including America. America has electric chair. Know what it means? Shock? No, it's a shock. Continuous shock till the person dies. Like electrocuting someone to death. We have several other ones, of course. Some states in America have removed it totally. They have other countries like that.

I think Nigeria's first execution was 1971. Oyenusi, who was known to be an armed robber there. After that it was in 73. Then they would go take them to the dark beach. People go and watch them and they will shoot them like that. I remember having to watch the one in 1984. Four these guys that were. They were. They took drugs. I remember their name, sir. One of them is Latif something were three of them and worry was very funny. He. They just. They now did a law to kill drug traffickers and backdated it. They did not forget him till tomorrow. And that just for carrying, it's not cocaine. And the reason why they said, because it was. I mean, the influence is going to have on young people and all of that. And they all took the guys and killed them.

I saw the video, you know, so there are still laws. Even up to 19, even up to the 1970s, America still used to execute people by guns, electric chair and all of that. So are you following what I'm saying here, now goes 4,000 years away and think this is very evil? Are you following What I'm saying? 4,000 Years away, when sin entered fresh, it's still fresh, you know, and all of that, not in any way justifying it, just was trying to look at it in the context of it. So it was for a last resort, we said, and it will stop the influence of the society. We also had other ones. 13. The essence of you flogging people was in the US okay, before they became. Before the north and south came together.

But I think in this 15th century, 16th century, they would lie there in the public place and they will flog you up to 120 United States, America. Now, if you come to Africa, you understand, there. There are some other ones you don't want to hear about. I. You don't want to hear about it. In fact, there were worse ones, you know, you sure don't want to hear about it. You don't want to hear about it. Not in church. Jeremy 13 from verse one to 11, you have what you do to false prophets, those who come and tell you to follow other gods. He says in verse 5. So thou shalt put the evil away from the midst of you. That is the point. How do you pull the evil away from the midst of you? Verse 9. Thou shalt surely kill him.

Thy hand shall be forced upon him to put him to death afterwards. The hand of all the people. That means you. You do a collective killing and thou shalt stone him with stones that he will die because he has sought to trust thee away from the Lord your God that brought thee out of the land of Egypt. And from the house of bondage, let's take 11 together. All Israel shall hear and fear. Can you say it again? And shall do no more any such wickedness that is among you. So the essence is to take the person away. Now let's come to the epistles. Paul says, let him be what a curse you follow. Let him be accursed, that is, don't have anything to do with him. Now that means the real intent is don't deal with false prophets.

But the way they can understand it is to look at the laws of their days. Do you follow me? But you and I still know that we are not supposed to cohabit with false prophets. Who's following this? Do you get it? Just like that, brother, in First Corinthians 5, Paul was quoting the Old Testament when he says, put that evil away from you, that evil thing. So it was to stop idolatry, to stop rebellion using the context of their day. Never forget. It was not perfect. It was not meant to be. It was not meant to be eternal. And it was meant to mitigate what was existing already. Who's following this at all? So that they will hear and fear, which is the essence is to stop the influence.

So if you look at the Old Testament, you can see the way they treated false prophets. It's not. Let's just understand. No. What did he tell us to do? He told us to worship an idol. He twisted the laws of Yahweh. Okay? Someone said, I'll be the first to kill him. So they say, the person that gets the first, what are they doing? They are taking away evil from the land. You go to stop the infest. Why can't he just pray for him or walk in love? You know, Jesus doesn't tell you to pray for the person. Neither did he walk in love. Neither did Paul say he should beware of them and don't have anything to do with them. But if you are going to tell that to a Jew or an Israelite that came out of Egypt, this is what they know.

Let me see how they are following this. Okay, so for example, one of the things that was existing in that day was that the calls of Canaan, the practices was they consulted with the dead. And that is why you have Leviticus 19:28 says, you mustn't cut your bodies. Things like the tattoo you do now, fine. I really would not look at somebody with tattoo and say, you have sinned. I won't do that. I mean our grandmothers and great grandmothers had enough tattoo. It was basically like even beauty. You know, you had. I think you stopped that one. What do you call it, facial marks and all that. In my secondary school, when somebody has the way there was a teacher like that he had. It was one more year. He fought with the lion. That's the way we used to describe it.

That teacher that fought with the lion. That means he had marks on his face, you know, but you know, those things are not imagine. Today you say, you want to make your child beautiful. You want to, you want to put. Your friend walks in, what are you doing? Are you crazy? You know, you can actually go to ministry of justice and file something. This is, you know, but then it was beauty. But in, again, in the context of Israel, in Canaan, they did that as a worship of idols. And since God wanted Israel to be holy unto him, he says, don't do it. Now, I, for example, I love what brother Hagin said that I don't think it's nice for a responsible Christian to go and be putting tattoo on his body. What are you trying to do?

That your body is the temple of God. Amen. And it's not your body like that can do anything you like, you know that. You get to church, you say, I'm the house of God after putting tattoo. You understand? You can say, that's old time. Whatever you call it, you get it. But the truth is, you know, what they were adjusting here was to ensure they were not acting like those in Canaan. Now you have the issue about beds and all that, you know, don't cut your beards halfway. It's just a practice that was being stopped. Leviticus 19:27, Deuteronomy 14, verse 1. They used to consult with departed spirits. Even till today they do it in Nigeria when somebody dies. That means they went to go and consult with departed spirits who killed this person. I remember having to intervene in something like that.

A Christian that was in the 90s. The aunt died and so they claimed it was the dad, that's the dad of this sister in Christ that killed the aunt. And then she was convincing me by telling me a pastor, they went to go and consult her, telling a pastor, and the woman said, daddy, look at me. That is the dad that killed her. And she was telling, she really believed it, you know, that in Israel we should have killed her. Because she's spreading idol worship to me, the man of God. So that is, you know, so the holiness factor was a reason. Leviticus 21:1 5, Isaiah 8, 19, Isaiah 2, 5, 6. You see where Isaiah also warned about consulting with mediums.

And those of you who say your daddy appeared to you in a dream, you know that if you say it in church, your daddy that died appeared to you in the dream breakout class. It simply means that those kind of things, we don't have such communications, you know, with the dead, except the person has been raised from the dead. So it's important, you know, and that's why the eyewitness account of the mass of transfiguration, they said they talked with Jesus. The communication, nobody knew. But when Peter was going to write in the epistles, he just said God spoke. Because if he had tried in any way to. Because he didn't understand what was going anyway, if he tried to say this essence, he will have outrightly been communicating with the dead. Do you understand that?

So basically, that was the essence, not to spread such influence in the land. Now, Exodus 24:3, don't forget, the background of all of this is that Israel made a commitment as a nation, as individuals. And they said all the words which the Lord has said, we will do. We will do. But I want to show you something that I found very interesting. We read that from. I'm trying to. Okay, just put verse 6 to 16. I will take just a few places. Look at verse 12. If thou shalt hear in one of the cities which the Lord hath given thee to dwell there, saying, certain men, the children of Belial, had gone out from among us and have withdrawn the inhabitants of their city, saying, let us go and serve other gods which you have not known.

Thou shalt inquire and make search, and diligently and behold, if it be true, the certain thing that such an is wrought among you, thou shalt surely smite the hands of the city with the edge of the sword, destroy it utterly, and all that is therein, and the cattle thereof, and the edge of the sword, and thou shalt gather all the spoil of it in the midst of the street thereof, and shall burn with fire the city and all the spoil thereof. Where for Lord thy God it shall not be, and he forever it shall not be built again. Now, again, idol worship, etc. Etc. This is. Don't allow idol worship. But one thing that I found intriguing was that they were not forced to stay, which meant that you had the option of leaving.

If you are going to stay, you have to keep the worship of Yahweh utmost. You cannot practice idol worship here. So it's like there was an option, a door, you know, to leave. So it was basically a criminal justice system that was meant to regulate how people live. Let's see others. So 25, Verse 1 to 3. Says, if there be a controversy between men, right. Should they come to judgment and the judges may judge them, then they shall justify the righteous and condemn the wicked. It shall be the wicked be worthy to beaten. The judge shall cause him to be. To lie down and to beaten before his Face according to his fault by a certain number.

Okay, 40 stripes he may give him and not exceed lest if he should exceed and beat him above this many stripes, that brother should seem vile unto thee. So you again have a justice system that is like okay, come to trial, that's the first thing. So before all those things are done, they are taken to judges. I'll tell you the essence in a moment. So the first thing is that there's a trial. That means there's no jungle justice, there's no self help. In fact, where there's self help you're supposed to make compensation. Again, the judge has a limit of a maximum offense, 40 stripes. Of course you have to prove it. And all of that until today we still have such systems. I think there are still some laws in the past of Nigeria where they call to ask a person to be caned.