The annoyance that the guy was still there, they tracked him, tracked him and got him. Where they get like that in the desert, just killed him. And we said. And it became one of the reasons why they celebrated that administration. What about just preaching to him? Oh, you see, I got you. I got you where I wanted you. You understand? So now take your own unhypocritical stand and follow Israel to his wars and see why Samuel said, the kingdom is taken from you, Saul. You have to look at history of the Amalekites, history of. You have to look at all of them and Israel. They were war. They were at war. They were nations against themselves. And that wasn't God's plan.

So if you tell someone now, for example, if you tell the Christian minister today that the weapons of our warfare, it doesn't read the rest. I said, they are mighty through. God ignores the carnal part. You put. And he picks his guns because that's what he knows. But you know, today, even today, with. With all the human rights you know, all the love of, all the respect for human life that we know even in the natural then being born again, that you say, no, Christ died for the whole world. And you know, you even preach that. Look, we won't go for evangelism and tell people, you know, Jesus died for your sins. And you know, we say all of that, there are still believers today that pray, fall and die. If that one has gone, will he not use it? Do you understand?

Because either by gone or the other gun, I want you out. Now imagine God saying, I don't want an idol worshiper again in that land. Clear the place of Idol worshipers. If you hear that, what does it resonate in your heart? Preach now go back 4,000 years ago. What were you going to use the word no you apply the law of sin and death. And God being who he is, took responsibility for the things he never did. So when you hear Christ died for our sins is a heavy statement. All those things which is the law of sin and death. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, according to will now make a lot of sense. So always view it in the light of what was in existence.

So if I'm writing your notes for you, I'll put the laws of Moses were modified legislation criminal justice system. They had their own commercial law. They had their own, you know, all of that and all of that. Is it making sense? Is it making sense? Okay, good. So let's look at another aspect. You know, infant sacrifice, just child sacrifice. Again, this. This is something that people can use to even blackmail you. Interestingly I, I think I mentioned it. I engaged somebody on the plane and he went to that direction. I said no. So you know, we took it, you know, step by step. I even found a Pentecostal preacher. And I was so ashamed that day years ago. Interestingly, I'm not going to say I know what I know today, but was years ago. I suppose it was maybe 2001 or something.

And he said that so and so person. I'll get to that issue that when he got to the point he sacrificed his child and God's wrath was satisfied. And I said what? You know, something in me just said this is rubbish. Why would you preach this? And he of course one of the reasons why I knew immediately where it was coming from was he was preaching about giving. I know whenever they get on giving, you know we say lift him up higher. They will leave the text far above the heavens and the earth. That the context will say. They can't see it again. Look at what they have done to the mouth of the fish. The fish will say me coin. Where Peter was, I don't know anything. So he was thinking about giving.

He said if somebody can give his child that Abraham was about was ready to kill his son Isaac. And God says stop. That is not that God can't risen from the dead. But God did not want people to sacrifice their children. He said that in the same sermon thy now said one now gave his own child for the wrath of God. So if you want that poverty is the wrath of God. If you want to satisfy. Yeah, I mean you say you're saying it's because you're not in the church. If you are there, you are saying so it's what you are hearing that makes you say, ha. Everything is a reaction, both ha and who is what you have your heart that high and owing. Yeah, because I kind of felt no.

You know, And I like Brother Hagin the way I won't say Brother Hagin went to many details of these things, but helped us to not know. To know what it can't be. You know, I wouldn't have said, no, he's wrong, and I'll give you facts, as I'm doing today. But Brother Hagin had helped us to say that. I told you at the inception of this series that he said he gave us the permissive causative. And I said, yes, that's the only way that I can explain these contradictions. So for me, that he may not have given us the details, as, of course, as some of us are doing today, but it was what he thought that helped us. So at that point, I could have just said, no. The words I would say is God allowed it doesn't mean God did it.

That's the worst I would have said. But now there are even better facts to explain it. So. But that is why the materialism aspect of preaching, there's almost no scripture they cannot lift high above all else. It will be seated far above the heavens and the earth. You say, You didn't even stop just above the building. You went way up and you begin to make scripture say what he wasn't saying. So why I'm taking on this one is because some people actually preach it in the aspect of giving. You say, where is your Isaac? Where is your Isaac? And your Isaac? In the. In the offering bag. And I told the fellow, I said, the person that dropped his Isaac took his Isaac back.

So if you want to drop your Isaac as you are putting your Isaac back, say the Lord sees he provided for himself an offering, then just take your thing back. That is context. Context and implication and application. Let's look at infant and child sacrifice. Leviticus 18:21 is very clear. I mean, 18:21 is very clear. Thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to Amalek. Neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God. I am the Lord. Again, this is not helped by theory that God gave his son to satisfy himself, or that God gave his son. Do you understand? To satisfy himself to satisfy his wrath. This is not helped by that theory. Those who teach it Hardly look at the overall implication. It is said here, you don't give your child for Molech. Chapter 20, verse 2 to 5.

Again, that says to the children of Israel, some shall be the children of Israel, or strangers of that subject that give any of his seed unto Molech. That's even to non Israelite it shall surely put to death the people of land shall stone him with stones. I've set my face against that man that will cut him off from among his people, because he had given his seed unto Molech to defile my sanctuary and to profane my holy name. And so up to verse five that you don't give your child for such things. Deuteronomy 12:31. Deuteronomy 18:10. Let's read it. 12:31. Thou shalt not do so unto the LORD thy God. For every abortion of the Lord which he hate are they done unto their gods. For even their son and they are burnt in the fire to their gods.

Deuteronomy 18:10 if you see the I think it's in it should be in this gospel. This fact is in this gospel. It's in, I think, forgiveness of sins. Deuteronomy 18, verse 10. That's how we explain the Jesus did not die to fulfill the law. Verse 10. That shall not be found among you any that makes his son or his daughter to pass through the fire or either use the relation or an observer of times or an enchanter or a witch that is this child offering. No, no. Now you look at second kings 3. 27, Which is the text I mentioned that they use at that convention where they were collecting money. Now I mean, you know the background of the story. Then verse 27.

Then he took his eldest son, that should have reigned in his stead, 2nd Kings 3:27 and offered him for a burnt offering upon the wall. And there was great indignation against Israel and they departed from him and returned to their own land. Now this is quite a strange story that he gave his child, you know, as an offering. Now it is always imagined that this was the wrath of God in the way it's explained. Look at 2nd Kings 16, verse 3. I'll start from one. So since here of Pekah, the son of Remaliah, is the son of Jotham, king of Judah, began to reign 20 years old was years when he began to reign and reigned 16 years in Jerusalem did not that which was right in the sight of God the Lord his God, like David his father.

But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yea, and made his son to pass through the fire. Can you see it? Can you see it now? He walked in their ways, not in what God wanted, according to the abomination of the eating, whom the Lord cast out from before the children of Israel, and sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills and under so you had kings who were Idol worshippers. Chapter 17, verse 7. For it was so that the children of Israel had sinned against the Lord their God, which had brought them out of the land of Egypt from under the hand of Pharaoh the kings and had feared other gods. That's idol worship, right? 21 6.

Another king, he built verse 5 altars of all the hosts of heaven in the two courts of the house of the Lord. And verse 6 He made his son pass through fire, and observed times and used enchantments, and dealt with familiar spirits and wizard, and wrought much wickedness inside of lots of people who came to anger. So you see that this was done as idol worship. Now the word used there, which that is I'm talking about 2nd Kings 3:27 for wrath 2nd Kings 3:27. For roth is the word quetzef q e t s e p h and the cognate of it in 2nd kings 11. Second kings 11.

Second Kings 13:19 first and the man of God was wroth with him that's man made and said, thou should have smitten five or six times then thou hast smitten Syria till they have consumed where else now that smite Syria but twice? So it's used for a man made wrath. In other words, what the king did there wasn't to sacrifice unto God, but rather was to sacrifice unto idols. The other text that the man used is in Georges 11. I know it's not difficult to believe those kind of things when you also believe that God gave Jesus Christ to satisfy his own wrath. Judges 11. It's a long one, but I'll just say from verse 30 through to 40, but let's start.

Jephthah vowed a vow unto the Lord, and said, if thou shalt without fail deliver joy of Ammon unto my hands, then he says he will offer a burnt offering. Then verse 32 he passed unto the children of Ammon to fight against them and all of that then he smote them from hour until and all that and they subdued children of Israel were subdued before John. Look at verse 4:34 he came to misbehave unto his house, and behold his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances. And she was his only child. Beside her he had neither son nor daughter. And it came to pass when he saw that he rent his crusade and said, alas, my daughter, thou has brought me very low. That was at one of them that troubled me.

For I have opened my mouth unto the Lord, and I cannot go back my father. If thou have opened your mouth unto the Lord, do to me according to that which you have presented to me mouth. For as much as the Lord has taken vengeance of thee, of thy enemies, even the children of Ammon, let this s be done for me. Let me be alone two months and I grow up and honor and all that. So he goes, sends her away for two months. And in verse 39 she returned. And he did with her according to his vow which had vowed and. And she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel, the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah that Gilead four days in a year. And so he said, wow, what a commitment to God.