Verse one. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the Gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received, and wherein you stand, by which also you are saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all, which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And he was buried, and he rose again the third day, according to the Scriptures. And he was seen of Cape Pastor on the. So our key concern there is the Word according to the Scriptures. Again, the background of these writings are the events of the Old Testament. Remember, the Old Testament is. It has doctrine, theology.

It also has experiences, encounters, in this instance, wars, modes of worship, you know, and all of that in between human experiences is God's theology. And all of that, theology of Christ in God. And so our study, therefore, must be deliberate. We mustn't ignore any detail whatsoever. And later on, we looked at Hebrews 11 and, you know, we said we can. You can evade it in Paul's letters. Paul's letters were straight away cryptic. He just used words, spiritually speaking. He just used it, spiritually speaking. 2Nd Corinthians 10, 3 and 4. What else do we have? Well, 1st Corinthians 9, I fight as one that beats the air. 1St Corinthians 9, 25. Is that 25 or 26, where he speaks about the minister as he that wareth entangled them not yet this life. 2Nd Timothy 24345, 2nd Timothy 4, 7. Afford the good fight.

2Nd Timothy 6:12. Fight a good fight of faith. The baby Jude 3, content, earnestly. So that's for us an escape route because it's already imaged, you know. But then the writer of Hebrews throws in the problem, which, you know, of all the writers of the epistles, he was the only one who took a historical formatting, unlike Stephen. Stephen was theological. Stephen just said, yes, this happened for the purpose of the worship of Yahweh. He mentioned the angel in the church, in the wilderness, and up to the rejection of the saint one. But the writer of Hebrews doesn't just do that. He brings the experiences to our faces. The very experience of Abel. And then the animal offered that. We mentioned Enoch, who was translated. You shouldn't see death.

Then Noah's Ark, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, the way they were dwelling in Tabernacles, Sarah having a child being offered, looking at the stars. He brings the experiences to our faces. The conquest in Egypt, okay, Joseph in Egypt, the way he blessed his children. Then Moses, how he was born, how he fled, how he came back, how they had the Passover, how the firstborn was destroyed, how. How people were destroyed. So he brings the experiences to us, which means that his audience were made to read those experiences again now, to know how they were taught and the way they thought would be to now read Hebrews 13:1, where he says, let brotherly love continue, where you have the word philadelphos, or Philadelphia, as we call it today.

And then he talks about the sacrifice that is acceptable unto God, which is good works to do good. Hebrews 13, verse 6. Sorry, verse 16. Having said that, no doubt. It therefore means that for using the conquest as articles of Faith in chapter 11, verse 33 down, it means that there's an interpretation they have done. I think I was discussing this with some folks that it now appears glaring that the easiest to read are the epistles. It appears glaring that it's. It's like. I don't want to call it to be. I don't want to. I don't want to be caught making anything that look cliche. But it appears that really the study of Scripture is the story of the Old Testament, because that is what the audience of the apostles had. That was what they understood.

It is that understanding that was followed up by the epistles. So they understood what we are discussing today. They understood the context of the wars, theology and the grammars of the wars, and of course, the worship, the mode of worship, the issue of the temple. Like I mentioned earlier, Hebrews 8 and 5, when he was about to build, he was told according to pattern, and the writer says that it was a shadow, a type towards skia and tripos. In other words, what he did, all right, was not for a literal worship. But like I said earlier, Moses schooled in Egypt and all he had to depict worship. Let me say this in very clean terms. The imagery he will use is idol worship, oil. And he got those things from the Near Eastern culture. That's the imagery he's going to use.

So God will yet have to use what he used. So once in a while, when I think about this, I go back to when Paul says, oh, what? The riches of the wisdom, of the knowledge of God. How unsearchable that is at the end of the day, when you see how it culminated. The way God through history, walked through our frailties and ended up presenting Jesus through them in a perfect tense should amaze you every time, In every way. So by mentioning the wars as rotting righteousness, we said the word there, justice. What is just and what should be done, we said, therefore we must go back to their own world. And we looked at a few allusions. I need to remind you also that use of slavery, for example, by Jesus does not endorse it.

I said that the other time, but that was what was available to explain. If you are going to explain forgiveness. Forgiveness was understood as paying debts. And there was no better way to explain paying debt, like using master servant. A master servant is not God who created it. But that is what Jesus had to use to explain forgiveness of sins. Let me see how you understand that. He hasn't endorsed it, but that is what he will need to use to explain forgiveness of sins. In fact, the issue of paying debts on its own, or even owing debts and paying it on its own cannot be God's creation. Yet you can't say people cannot owe. People have to owe. Say you don't owe me anymore because I'm a Christian. It depends on the amount.

If it's negligible, you say 1 billion, I'll be praying for you, ensure you make it available. Yet you can't say that you were led by the Spirit to collect it. What can God do? That's human systems. But he can use that example to explain forgiveness of sins. Who's following what I'm saying here? So I want you to understand grammar. The grammar is critical before we go to theology of it. So the words are rotting, righteousness, you know, and it's good to set this tone well, so that you will not be. Just like we have done on many areas. You will not be wary of using Old Testament words to explain anything. Of course, I know that before you get there, you shall pass this barrier with your congregation. You have to cross this barrier or else you just say aha.

You are just talking all this goodness of God that you are talking about, you are just talking reality, you know. But the truth is you must cross this barrier. Well, well enough. And you know, very tender. So we said that the why is very vital. You can get lost with the what? You look at something. Let's go back to that. Hebrews 11. Again, the why is Hebrews 11. One substance of things hoped for. That is the Hugh Pertasis pragmaton elpiso. What was believed for what was seen, what was in view, or call it the bigger picture. Evidence, electrons of things not seen. Pragmatone blopiti that is, things that were not perceived in the natural. So therefore that is the why. But look at how the world changed. Animal verse Four. Okay, let's say verse three.

Through faith we understand the walls were framed by the word of God, that the things that were seen were not made of things that do appear. Then verse 4. Through faith Abel offered. Through faith, Enoch was transcendent. See how the experiences have changed through faith, Noah prepared an ark. Through faith, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob lived in tabernacles in the foreign land. Can you see that? The experiences have changed. The narrations changed, but the why did not change. The why did not change. The why is verse one and verse two, verse three. But the word has changed depending on human civilization. The context of their day, a song where they lived, building an ark because there was a flood. Being translated when it was long life. Having a child where you are barren, going to a foreign land.

Okay, we have Isaac, of course, numbered as the seed. Then going to where you have a brother Ishmael, there's an Isaac who is called the seed. Then you have so different things in the world. Then you also have Joseph blessed his kids and talked about his bones being taken back to the land. So that means he had foreseen they are going to leave the place. Then he talked about Moses being born in Egypt, born properly, then left, came back again, you know, and all that. So the experiences changed. God had to make do with the experiences, yet he had to remain in their consciousness, in the faith factor of their experiences, which is the why. Then you had the Red Sea, you had the destruction of the Egyptians, you had Rahab the allot. You have all that. So the experiences changed.

Then you had wars. Then we moved from the wars to persecution. Even deaths and even murders and even martyrdom. Then he says all of them did not obtain the promise. So which means that the context of the walls will be the fallen world. The context of the walls will be man's creation. The what should not be your first line of understanding. It should be what the why. Now again. So we sat there, of course we talked about wars today. I said wars are. So we have justifiable wars today, right? Come on. Nigeria. Okay. Boko Haram in Nigeria, killing children is called genocide. Crime against humanity. The Nigerian government sending their own soldiers to battle is justified. Or put the word diakosune, right? Come on. A thief coming to steal with a gun, then a shot is justified, right? A thief stealing biscuit and shot.

No, that's not commensurate. Okay, a kidnapper. So it's justified within human systems. What else can we use? I think last time we talked about the criminal justice system, the electric chair Firing squad. Now the world is reforming and saying, you don't have to kill now. Let them. Was it in Britain that these fellows that killed Abdullah Taylor, that stabbed him to death were released and they came out to commit another crime. Nigeria is now calling their prisons, don't call it prisons, correctional centers. You know, there was, I saw a video of a prison in Norway, is in Norway now, that had dstv. Sorry, see my mouth. Nigeria, they had satellites, you could browse the Internet, you know. And I kind of felt, you know, they allow them take exams. We're going to have a job there. What kind of crime did they commit?

This is. This is. I kind of feel some Nigerians just say, can I go and commit a crime there? Just give me a visa. You go to the consular officer and say, why do you want to go and go to our country? Let me commit a crime, please. I want to commit a crime. Why? So that I can live there. So we're saying that, I mean, God will have to work with that. Don't forget, the background is the ideal. Genesis 1 and 2, right? That will remain the ideal. There's nothing you can do. There's nothing. There's no way you can explain it out. That becomes the beginning of all things. So therefore, in looking at the wars, the first thing we said was that the wars were religious, right? They had to do with worship.

Today, cryptically speaking, it looks like the way we preach the gospel, what we call Christianization agenda, something of that nature. And the way they will inherit the land is how lands are inherited. That's what they understood. We mentioned the war rhetorics like Arsenal massacre, Chelsea. I don't like that. Arsenal destroys completely. Barcelona, that looks more completely complete annihilation, Something like that. Or you say Barcelona finished. That's more like it, you know? And then you see they are still playing the next week. I thought they are finished. It's just a rhetoric of war. One other thing that I think I want to mention is the fact that the wars had minimal human damage. The intent was to destroy idols in as painless means as possible. As painless means as possible. You know, where we came from? We came from there in Egypt. Come on, remember?