So Isaiah 53 makes God responsible only because he allowed it, but he did nothing. In John 10:16, 18, Jesus said, Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life that I might take it again? No man takes it from me, but I lay down myself. I have power to lay it down. I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father. Did he have the capacity? Yes. In Matthew 26:53 think now that had not prayed to my Father that he should presently give me more than 12 legions of angels. Oh, we sing the song. He should have called thousands of angels, but he knew his death is our life. So in the death of Jesus and the events put to pay any thinking we might have about what happened in the Old Testament.

In John 8 Jesus said, you are of your Father the devil, because you are seeking to kill me. In other words, he identifies where it had all come from. John 8:40 and John 8:44 in Luke 22:53 when they came to arrest him. Look at the statement he made. When I was dealing with you in the temple, you stretched forth no hands against me, but this is your hour. The power of darkness. Just like Colossians 1:12, 13, Acts 26:18 Ephesians 6:10 12. The power of darkness shows the part of Jesus in this Hebrews 2:14 as well. So it therefore means that in this proper study of the Old Testament, what we simply mean to do, what we simply should aim to do, is to unbundle every single seeming complicated issue with the truth that the Old Testament itself explains.

The wages of sin, we said, is death. That's from Genesis 2:16, 17, Romans 5:12. One man sin entered into the world, Romans 6:22 and all of that. James 1:15, John 12:30, the prince of this world cometh and had nothing in me. First Corinthians 2:6 8 says, if they had known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. Also we realized that Satan had demons. They are Also called fallen angels. Daniel 10:12, 13:20, John 12:31 John 14:30. You can't call Satan a prince and he has no fighters. John 14:30, John 16:11, 2 Corinthians 4, 4 Ephesians 6:12, 1 John 5:19. Which means that there will be actions in the Old Testament undertaken by both angels, whether the Elohim of God and the Elohim of the dev.

So if we can properly decipher the characters in the death of Jesus, then the Old Testament explanation becomes a clean sweep for us. So this conclusion, it is not a mere conjecture by New Testament writers. It is a proper interpretation of the Old Testament. In his world, where you come to your own world. Now, there's not a concept. Okay, we agree. But God still did it in a way so that he can turn the evil to good. That is not true. That is why I said that I want us to be careful about. These are permissive. To be in language and not in actions. God permitting it is an helplessness not in his will at all. And helplessness what he could do nothing about. Let me give you an instance.

You are raising a child, and then the child, you know, you don't want the child to put his hand in fire. And then you go, don't do it by instructing. Then you want the child not to do it by experience. Then you watch the child, and then you watch the child actually go to. You allow the child to go ahead and touch the fire. That is permissive will. That's not what we are saying. That is. But if you, assuming you held the child right and then the child wriggles out of your hands and then touches the fire, and then they say you permitted it. No, we can explain it in a permissive tense. That he saw it happen, not that he let him do it. There was nothing I could have done because the child wriggled out of my hand.

Do you understand the difference? So the term permissive will, even though I know the intentions of the users, may again create a problem. Because if you use will, that means it's an intention. It is not an intention at all. Rather it is an event he had no control over. God has no control over sin. Now look at one of the most beautiful texts of scripture I find in the Old Testament. But it again has been abused. Genesis 50:20. Hope we are learning something. Now. Do you guys see the importance of language? Who can see it of being lucid in what you are saying? Then don't make assumptions. Don't make assumptions. If were to Put to task all the teachings of the law, the one. We read it morning to night. The books of the old world will not contain it.

Which means that in teaching you should be as explicit as possible. Okay. Look at Genesis 50. Of course. This is the very end of the story. Joseph said in verse 19, fear not to his brethren, for I am in the place of God. For am I in the place of God. Sorry, but as for you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as to this day, to save much people alive. Now let me. Let me explain it in a reformed way. God made it happen. Even though they were thinking something else will happen. God made it happen so that he will now use it. That is that permissive will. You can only say that the moment you say this, then every other mother in the book of Genesis is the same way. But it's not true.

Let's look at the story. Genesis 45, verse 7 and 8. This was what Joseph said when he revealed himself. God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth, to save your lives for a great deliverance. But now it was not you that sent me either, but God. And he had made me a father to Pharaoh and a lord of all his house and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. Now look at what he said. He says, God made me. How did God do it? God. God made me a father to Pharaoh. A lord. He's speaking from the end, From how God triumphed over evil, not how God initiated it. He need not become a slave before Israel was preserved. But since he had become a slave, that was all God had to use. Who?

Understand what I just said now? He need not have gone to Egypt. But since it had happened, the faithfulness of God makes him a deliverer. Immediately. They wanted to kill him. They had evil in their hearts. Chapter 37. After he had a dream, they even wanted to kill him. 37:18 To slay him. They conspired. They knew what they did was evil. But what Joseph is describing is the end. The end? What God did as victory over evil, not how God used it. Now let's look at this scenario. Did God triumph over evil in the death of Jesus? Yes. Did he use it? No. Now we can say he used it because of the victory. But he didn't use it like he initiated the actions. No. He was the sufferer. He was the victim. But in his victory, it became a tool of his victory.

So it is not a permissive will. No, it's what he grieved over is against his will. But his will triumphed over it. Jacob's brothers were moved with envy. So at the end of the day, what you have. Sorry, Joseph, sorry. What you have is a the conclusion. Now look at Romans 8:28. All things work together for good to them who love God to them who are the called according to his purpose. Imagine reading that out of context. Why did Paul write that? Because in Romans 5 he wrote about sin. The law of sin and death. I triumph over it. Indwelling of the spirit, the promise of the inheritance of the glorified body. He now says, all these things work together for good to them who love God, because love God is faith to them who are called according to his purpose.

So he's talking about the triumph of God's goodness and love over evil, and not God walking with evil. An Hebrew scholar said this about the statement of Joseph. He said, from the point of religion impressed upon the mind of the Israelites was the absolute supremacy of Jehovah in everything and his providential interference in every circumstance which could affect the welfare of their family or people from ends. The transition to that expression was very easy, which describes those actions of the men as though God was doing it, of which he only overruled the event. So expressing Joseph, he said thus Joseph says to his brethren, so now it is not you, but God that sent me here. By which he does not mean to deny that his brothers had sent him there.

For he has said that expressly in verse 5, but to ascribe the all to God's providence, who had so wonderfully, in spite of their sin, preserved their whole family. So providence should not be seen as God's action. He just sees the and makes provision. But in the Jewish culture, because just like you and I, we believe God has absolute supremacy that even in the things he has not done, which is against his will, he has a provision to overcome it. Do you understand? So it is to that intent that we affirm his supremacy. That look that well, he didn't initiate this. He didn't do this. I mean, somebody asked me a question. He said, what is God saying about a global pandemic? I said, God is grieving. So what do you mean he's grieving? God is grieving. To how far we can go?

God is giving, like the Almighty God. I said, when you sin, does he grieve? He said, of course. I said, so what are you talking about? God is grieving, he's lamenting. Say, is that all said? No, but we have to join him in lamenting. Too, because we carry his spirit. That vexation we are. Why would you do this to a fellow human being? Why would this? That is God's spirit. But we don't end there. We lament in prayer, we lament as we preach. But we know that in his providence, evil will never overcome good. The cross of Christ has taught us that. That's why the cross is the power of God. Not something initiated, but what he did to it. And so the believer. It's interesting that we have also theologists flying across the hemisphere. All across the hemisphere, you know.

And it's because, you know, theology has not been taken seriously. We almost act like God has control. God has the control in the eventuality that which he did with the cross. He didn't have a control over betrayal of Judas. He had a control over the hatred, the persecution. But at the end he showed his own power as to his eventual answer to evil. Just like Romans 5:12, sin entered into the world and death by sin. But the gift of righteousness was the answer. It took a while. The long suffering of God also shows his love. But God's power will trump over evil. Be careful of the word trump of late. That's why we have to run away from the danger of proof texting, taking a text that out of his context.

When Joseph made that statement on the two occasions, he was not denying the fact that it was the brothers who sent him there. He was saying, eventually, this is what God did to what you did. Are we not grateful? In Acts 7:9, it's clear in Stephen's teaching that they were moved with envy. Envy is not a product of God's love. First Corinthians 13:4 says, Love doesn't envy. Galatians 5:19 shows you that envy is a work of the flesh. And Jesus in Matthew 7:18 says, A good tree does not bring forth an evil fruit. In James 3, 13, 16, James shows you that envy is an evil work. So the believer in the word of God does not. Is not afraid of evil. He laments at it.

He grieves about it, but is so assured that God will take care of it, just as he did to the cross. Was the sin of Adam or man God's plan? No. Was a sin in God's knowledge? Yes. Did God provide a way of escape? Yes. Do you understand that now? Did the sin of man and the triumph of God made us know God more and better yet? Yes. So you see that theology, there is one theology has a very peculiar narrative. And that narrative is to ensure that Everything is woven around this warped view. Hence the allowance of the popular original sin concept where we all agree that were born into sin. So a baby. Think about it. Someone said, we are all born as sinners. I said, how? He said, we are born as sinners. How?

He said, because we came from Adam, we are all sinners. I said, good. I said, okay, we all came from Adam. Very good. Let me accept your theory. So now that I'm a new creature, whose son am I? He said, the son of God. So my son is still Adam's son? He was not looking? No. So my son is a son of God? No. He was. You see, it's a theory that has not been taught through sin is an act. The nature of sin is simply man's free will disposition to obey and disobey. Now I'll give you a few historical documents. This is just for our study. Martin Luther at the cross in the last few months to read some of his writings.