5, The writer of Hebrews says, for he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. Is that not jealousy? Aha. I will never leave you nor forsake you, so that you may Boldly say, lord is my helper, I will not fail what a man will do to me. So the background of that is verse four, the marriage bed undefiled. That's God's union with us. He's not corrupted. And so also In Matthew chapter 19, when Jesus answered the question on divorce, it says in the beginning it was not so. It says, whatever God has joined together, let nothing no man put asunder. Which means that adultery is a figurative expression of what happens to people that God loves and they worship another. So the jealousy of God here, which is, which we have referred already to me, is protective love.

Is not his possessive love? No, it's a protective. That's why when you read the Old Testament, it's always in relationship to the worship of idols. So the question we should now ask is idol worship evil to God or evil to man? That is the thin line of explanation. We have already said praise is proper. So now if one does something for me and I go towards another, it is not even human, is not proper. So the practice of idolatry or idol worship in itself is immoral. In itself is immoral. And of course when we say idol worship, it's, it's, it's really, it's not just about. I remember somebody that said, well, they came to a conclusion that, well, they don't agree with any being that created the world tonight. Let's be thanking the universe. Oh universe, thank you for this day.

I said, you are mad because you can't come. You come to the conclusion. It's like those who say they want to clone, that they can be creative and you know, was it Brother Hagin that did this? I've forgotten who did this. Illustration said, the atheist comes to God and says, I can create my own person. And God says, go ahead. So he said, but don't touch anything I need. So it becomes foolishness. At the end of the day, what you are investigating has been created. I woo to God that these pretenders can just say something even if they speak and it happens they spoke from what has already been created. Do you get my point? So if therefore is why the psalmist will say, you are a fool if you say there is no God. But some people think that's the height of knowledge.

No, that's the baseline of foolishness. So idol worship itself is immoral. That is, you can commend one thing for what he did not do or what another has done itself is immoral. So that is why the word adulterous machulist is used many Times in the New Testament, Greek. And whenever I read adultery. You think he's talking about physical immorality. Yes, it embodies that. But adultery is firstly what happens in the heart of man. Why did Jesus call them in Matthew 6, 16, 4. An adulterous generation. Matthew 12, 20, 39, 40. Adulterate and evil they say they seek, for that is what you seek after. It's within that context that God is called jealous or affectionate of an adulterous generation. So the writers of the Old Testament use the marriage institution, two people being in relationship to explain the worship of God and why.

To depart or to seek for another is there called adultery. So the physical adultery is an explanation of another thing entirely. Now of course, James 4, 4, where it's called, it calls for adulterers, you know, that is. That has to do with, you know, the heart that is not sexual. There again, the same thing. 2Nd Corinthians 11, same thing, you know. But look at. You can read this later, Ezekiel 16 and 23, where that imagery is used to explain idol worship. So let's typify Israel. In Exodus chapter 24, verse 3 and 7, Israel will say to God, who follow you, who obey you, will do what you say. Exodus 24:3 7. You have rescued us, you have saved us, took us out of slavery. Oh, what a great God you are. All the words which the Lord has said, we will do.

Exodus 24:3 7. All the Lord said that we should do will be obedient. Don't forget that at this point you don't have all the 612 laws. So what has he said they should do to believe him they will do. Look at Exodus 33, verse 10. They saw the pillar and all the people rose up and worshiped every man in his door. But what eventually happened to them was that they still worshipped idols. They still went after idols. So therefore God being called jealous is because of his passionate affection. Then the question should now be, is it for us or for himself? It can't be for himself. Is worshipping idols walking in the flesh or walking after addiction of the world? Is it? Am I doing it for God? Or let me put it this way, is it injurious to me?

And God says, don't do it. If I don't do it, then it's in the worship of God. Eventually it becomes whose benefit? Mine. So God's jealousy or affection becomes positive when you situate it. Parent and child, husband and wife, shepherd and sheep, a friend and the other idolatry. Therefore hurts us. And God's love is positive. So idolatry hurts us. God's love, or put it this way, is pain when man goes into idolatry is therefore positive. It is therefore for our own good that we are told to worship God and him alone. Look at Deuteronomy, chapter 10, verse 13, Verse 12. Now Israel, what doth the Lord thy God require of thee but to fear the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, to love him, to serve the Lord thy God with all your heart and with all your soul?

To keep watch this, to keep the commandments hope you have opened there of the Lord. And he said, which I command for thy good. It is for thy good. Chapter 8, verse 16. Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna? Who this your father knew not that he might humble thee, that he might prove thee to do thee good at the latter end. Chapter 30, verse 9. The Lord thy God will make thee plenteous in every work of thy hand, in the fruit of thy body in the foot of thy castle, the fruit of thy land for good. For the Lord will again rejoice over thee for good, as he rejoice over thy fathers. So it's for our good. So at the end of the day you ask the question.

And then, of course, if you read the ultimate veil, you discover that a there's always God will lament a couple of times. Look at Isaiah 5 when he talks about that vine. What more should I now do? What else should I do for you to know that I love you? What else should I do that you will not worship other gods? She's almost like someone complained. What else should I have done for you? Jeremiah 2:21 the same thing. Notice she just did the same thing with all I have done of which this of which of these are you against me? Is it the blind that saw the Lamb? No, it's of no reason but this. So you see that it's the lamentation of God throughout the Old Testament. What else do you want? So it is in the love of God.

And the unbelief that follows after that is thus described as jealous. So he's jealousy, which is in zeal, not a negative action, rather it is positive. So within the Old Testament, and this is vital, the context of God being called a jealous God is in the context of idol worship. And idol worship is that which hurts. We're going to come to it in a moment. Is that which hurts. And so the jealousy of God is protective of the man that he loves, and he shows that Love. Not by just speaking, he does it. The typical case of the Exodus was that he delivered them, he fed them, he showed them his mighty works for 40 years. And within that 40 years, they still went after another God.

So in other words, what we have in the Old Testament is not a despot, as God is a loving God. So whenever he's being called jealous, it's always quoted out of context. When you read the Exodus story and then the events that came afterwards, you will know why he was that passionate. So it was not against, rather it was protective. Look at Psalm 81, verse 10 to 11. Therefore you will see a whole lot of lamentation of the prophets. And this time God in the Old Testament. What else do you want me to do? Psalm 81, verse 10 and 11. I am the Lord thy God that brought thee out of the land of Egypt. Open thy mouth wide and I will feel it. But my people will not hearken to my voice. And Israel will have none of me.

Have you ever felt betrayed before? Who has? And you cry and you feel bad. You do right now. If somebody betrays you and the person calls you and says, why did you do that to me? But you know very well that I got that thing for you. And the guy says, you are too jealous. You're not an evil person. That is how it is to blackmail God and say he's just all about himself. No, if God cries at all, if he laments at all, it's not about himself, it's about us. So the worship of God eventually is to do who good is to do us good. The worship of God is at the latter end. Not just a latter. Sorry. It is eventually to do us good. Isaiah 66 and verse 4. And I think we can.

I also will choose their delusions and bring their fears upon them. Because when I called, none did answer. When I spoke, the not hear. But he did evil before my eyes and chose that which I did not delight in. You find that lamentation throughout scripture? Ezekiel 18. Let's just read that one quickly. Ezekiel 18, verse 23. Have I any pleasure that the wicked should die, say the Lord God? Not that he should return from his ways and live. Okay, but when the righteous turns away. Okay, yeah. Turns away from his righteousness and commit iniquity. And doth according to all the abortions that the wicked doers, shall he live? All this righteousness that he had done shall not be mentioned.

In his trespass that he had trespassed, and in his sins that he had sinned in them, he shall die just speaking, you know, logically, Ezekiel 31, 32. Did I see that? No, sorry. That's basically 18. Sorry for that. 30. Let's start from 30. Actually, I will judge you as a visual. Everyone who, according to his ways, said, lord God, repent and turn from all your transgressions. So iniquity shall not be your ruin, cast away from you all your transgressions whereby you have transgressed and make you a new heart and a new spirit. For why will you die, O house of Israel? For I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth, says the Lord God, therefore turn yourselves and me. So that usually is an appeal. And God saying it through his prophet is not being vindictive or judgmental.

He's only saying that of love, because he says, sin ruins and destroys. And so the love of God which we have seen here right from the Old Testament, is protective. His zeal and his jealousy is towards man, is not against man. Again, let's put this together and say that when God is called jealous or passionate, in that instance, look at the surrounding circumstances, it's always about idol worship. So the question we should ask ourselves is idol worship positive or negative? If it's negative, then that means the jealousy of God is positive. Amen. See you in 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/