That the world as we have today is a fallen world and wars are a common feature of it. So the Book of Judges, or let's say Joshua as well, will open us up to Israel's wars and how it was carried out. So what I'm going to do today is not to look at the why, as it were, first. But I just gave you a background. What we're going to do today is basically to explore what exactly even happened. Then we'll touch the fringes of why. But like we said, the why carries the greater weight than what exactly happened. So, yeah, how did Israel. This is a challenge you are going to face. God gives them a land to go to. Please ignore. First of all, put aside the. No, the land is not a physical place. It's a spirit.

Please, please, let's put that's, that's hiding behind one finger. Just put that aside, you understand? Because it's part of Bible history, it's part of Bible study. We just read it now. The writer of Hebrews says it's by faith that they conquered kingdoms. Jesus saw it. So we must first of all cross the first barrier. The first barrier is language, because you're going to see people accuse you and say, look, if this is true, that means God inspired genocide. Ethnic cleansing as we have it today. I remember being in a class when one of my lecturers, a Christian, she was a deaconess in one of the churches, did say that, well, the Bible is full of all those injustices done in the name of God. She mentioned ethnic cleansing. Then she was very critical at that day about female domination, discrimination, male chauvinism.

I must admit that at that point, that's the only one I could explain. So I raised my hand at stuck at that. I ignored the other ones because how would I explain the cleansing? Because one of my examples of faith was killing Goliath. So what way was I going to come out of that? So, but I was able to explain that. But the truth is that these are facts in Scripture. And if you remember, one thing we said in this study is that everybody listening to Paul and Jesus, they were reading these Wars. They weren't ignoring it. They weren't saying, that's the Old Testament. Then the question is, what do you expect us to read? So we must go back to their world and see how they studied it. So there are three things you will see.

One, how did they occupy the promised land? The forces of military wars? The second will be infiltration. And the third is to mix in order to change and adapt forces military wars. The second is infiltration or they just getting the people and mixing to adapt. Let's go to the book of Judges. Piece of paper flying around me at this point. Judges, Joshua and Judges. Our understanding of those two books will go a long way in our understanding of the entire Old Testament books in this context of wars. Judges 1, 2, 3, 5. The Lord said, judah shall go up. Behold. Okay, let's start from one. Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites, first to fight against them. The Lord said, judah shall go up. Behold, have delivered the land to his hand.

And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, come up with me unto my Lord, that we may fight against the Canaanites. And I likewise will go with thee unto thy. So Simeon went with him, Judah went up. And Lord delivered the Canaanites and the parasites in their land. And they slew of them in Bezek, 10,000 men. And they found Adonizek, sorry, Bezek in Bezek. And they fought against him. And they slew the Canaanites and the Perizzites. So again, those are slew means to kill. I hope you know it's not slay queen, it means to literally kill. So we need to understand from history how this conquest were carried out. The book of Georges and Joshua will give us the context and also provide proper content how we ought to read.

Now, one of the historians that I checked up with, David Howard, said that much of the conquest was done without material damage. He has a book called Joshua 5. And it says much of the conquests were done without material damage. Now, one challenge where I guess we have, you and I have, was that much of these wars, we learned them in Sunday school as kids, and we took delight in the conquests. And growing up, we're finding out the implications of the things we liked. And because when you are teaching children, you use sweeping statements, they demolish the whole place. God reigns, you know, at that point, it looks like a lovely story that entered the land and cleared all the enemy. And then you're happy. You're used to Voltron, you're used to watching movies. You like it? You like Rocky Marciano. You like Terminator?

You like Ralph Lone, Green, Red Scorpion. You liked all the Chuck Norris movies where, you know, and the guy just brings out, call it rocket launcher. I am the Terminator. When growing up, some questions will now emerge. You mean including the children? You never asked that when you were children. And the women. This is the reason why when those questions came up, some Christians started thinking how that even in our own world today, there are military limits. There's something called crimes against humanity. And so you ask the question, what justifies it? So the challenge is that we have read these stories in children's church Sunday schools, and that's the mindset that we have. And we have ignored, as it were, that in their world, they use what we said the other day, the Near Eastern language and rhetoric.

There was a mode of communication that they had. The first thing history tells us, and I'm talking archaeologically speaking, and we're going to look at the text ourselves, was that it wasn't as widespread as it is written. You know, communication sometimes can be so brief and summative that if you assume it's saying what is not saying, you get the wrong conclusions. If I say Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, then we get to unbundle. Did he fall down? Did he have an accident? Was he sick? Not included. You have to find out. They get to the details. He was killed for our sins. How was he not accused of this and accused of that? You bring in the factual, then theological implication of what happened.

So what I'm trying to say is that some things can be written that require much more than surface reading, and one of them would be the wars. Look at Judges. Oh, sorry, Joshua 10. And verse 40. I probably want us to do this first before we go to Joshua so that we won't get scared. Have you read this before? Joshua smote all the country of Egypt hills, and of the south, and of the vale, and of the springs and all their kings. He left none remaining and utterly destroyed all that breathed, that includes dogs, as the Lord God of Israel commanded. Then he says, and Joshua smote them from Kadisbania, even unto Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even unto Gibeon, all these kings and all their land did Joshua take at one time because the Lord God of Israel fought for Israel.

Then Joshua 11, Verse 16 through to 23, and Joshua took all the land, the hills and the south country, and all the land of God and the valley and the plain, and the mountain of Israel and the valley of the sea, even from the Mount Arak goeth up to Seir. Even the BAAL guard in the valley of Lebanon under Mount Hermon. And all their kings he took and smote them and slew them. Joshua made war at a long time with all those kings. There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the Aheptas of Gibeon. All they took that took in battle. Please write that down. Take note of verse 19.

For it was of the Lord who had in their heart that they should not come against Israel in the battle, that he might destroy them that is coming. Sorry. They may destroy them utterly, and they may have no favor but that he might destroy them. And has the Lord commanded. And at that time came Joshua, and cut off the Anakims from the mountains and Hebron, and from Bea and Anab, and from all the mountains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel. Joshua destroyed them utterly with their cities. 22. There was none of the Anakims left in the land of the children of Israel. Only in Gaza and in Gath and Ashdod there remained. Verse 23. Joshua took the whole land according to all that the Lord said unto Moses.

And Joshua gave it to an inheritance to Israel, according to the missions by their tribes. And the land rested from war. Now this is interesting, that this is how they got the promised land. So what you have in your mind is they went in and cleared the place everything that breathed. But look at Judges 1:21. Every Bible student knows that Judges and Joshua are together. Judges 1:21. Come on, look at this. Interesting. And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem. And it says, and the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem. He says, even unto this day. I thought he cleared it. Look at verse 27 and 28.

Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Bishon and her towns, and Tenach and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibelam and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and her towns. But the Canaanites would dwell in that land. It came to pass that when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute her, and did not utterly drive them out. Did you see that? I thought they were utterly killed, even said everything that breathed Joshua. Chapter Judges Chapter two, Verse three. Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you, but they shall be thorns in your sides, and their God shall be a snare unto you so. Which means that we need to read carefully. I thought I read that he had cleared everything that breathed.

I'm reading of the same Canaanites later on in Judges, that they were not all driven up. Which means that there's a language barrier we have to cross. Just like we have different kinds of modes of communication. The Scriptures has its own. In other words, it's written in a Near Eastern language where they use exaggerations, what you can call figures of speech, because his war is braggadocio. And I remember learning this, that propaganda is an art of war. You brag. Have you read about Hitler up till he was taken out? Or you read about Winston Churchill, who used very persuasive, sweet language to drive Britain to war. They had lost. And he said no, that the very last of the British Empire, if he remains, he would defeat the enemy. And that's just language. It is a use of words. Utterly destroy everything that breathes.

It's just to show conquest. It mustn't be read literally. So until we cross the language barrier, theology is going to be faulty. Just by reading Joshua and Judges, it's already clear to us that there were so many Canaanites that still existed. Hope you are following this. So therefore, look at Joshua 11. When I was doing this study, I can't ask, am I not systematically teaching Joshua and Judges? But maybe Joshua 11. I'm going to read from 21. Okay, let's start from 11. And they smote all the souls that were erring with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying them. There was not any left to breathe. And he burned Azo with fire. Wow. Look at verse 22, 21 and 22. At that time came Joshua and cut off the Anakims from the mountain.

And from Abram and Deborah and Anab, and from all the mountains of Judah. From all the mountains. And Joshua destroyed them utterly with their cities. Verse 22. There was none of the Anakims left in the land of Judah. Only in Gaza, in Gath and Ashdod, there remained. Well, was this literal? Joshua 14 and verse 12. This is Caleb. Caleb says, now therefore give me this mountain, whereof the Lord spake in that day. For thou hast in the day how the Anakims were there. And the cities were great and fence. If it so be, the Lord will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them. Can you see? I thought they had driven them out. I thought they were utterly destroyed. And Joshua blessed him and gave unto Caleb, the son of Jephoneh. Abram for an inheritance.

Abram therefore became the inheritance of Caleb, the son of Jephone, of the Canaanite, unto this day, because he had wary followed the Lord of Israel. Lord God of Israel. 15. And the name of Abram before was Kjathaba, which Arba was a great man among the Anakims. And the land had rest from war. That's serious. Joshua 15 again, verse 13. And Caleb, the son of Jephela, he gave a part among the children of Judah, according to the commandment of the Lord to Joshua. Even the city of Abba, the father of Anak. The city is Abron. Verse 14. Caleb drove ends the three sons of Anak, Shesha, Ahiman, Talmai, the children of Anna. And he went up ends with the habitus of Deborah. And the name of Deborah before was Kijak. Sepha. Is this a contradiction? No. It means read everything together.