So the analogy then John 6:61, 62 John 7:23 John 10:34, 36 John 19:36 Now I must tell you that I need to take some of them individually because there's a technical sense. For example, the one I showed you in Acts 1 is not as direct as the others. So where you find a premise was only laid for another conclusion. So that means there is a basis by which premises are laid for statements to be made that this if this is true, then this is so. And that is an inbuilt mechanism already within Scripture. How it Is reading itself. Romans 2:25. For circumcision verily profits if thou keeps the law. But if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made on circumcision. Therefore, if the circumcision keep the righteousness of the law shall not is uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?

And shall no circumcision, which is by nature, if it fulfill the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision does transgress the law. So it lays a foundation for Gentiles that look, if you all right by not doing the law, you are called uncircumcised. If the uncircumcised does the law, what do you think? So see, a premise is laid for another conclusion. Those who like mathematics will say, the Bible also is for mathematics. Romans 5 and 10. Okay, we start from 9. Much more then being now justified by his blood, you shall be saved from wrath through him. For if we when were enemies, we're reconciled to God by the death of his Son, Much more be reconciled shall be saved by life. That is, if while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. How much more now?

So a premise is laid to look at what I mean, what the believer is in that reconciliation today based on what God did to him before he believed. The premise is laid. Then you have verse 15 to 17. The offense, the gifts. You know those comparisons. You can check that out later. Chapter 8, verse 31. What shall we say to this? If God be for us, who can be against us? He who spared not his own son, but delivering for us, shall he not with him? So that you see that. That is, if you can see from the death of Jesus, then shall he not with him? Because he's talking about predestination, foreknowledge then the fact that we adopted as sons. He says, look, if you look at what happened at the cross, then what is in the resurrection should not amaze you.

So he lays a premise for the other. So there are not exactly two separate events. But he connects them by saying, if this can happen, then this will happen. Romans 11, 12, 24, 1st Corinthians 6:2, 3. Paul is quite a major user of this technique as well. Do you not know that the saints shall judge the world? That means they know that. So he's saying that if the world shall be judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? So if you know that you judge angels, why can't you handle that issue in your department in church. So it gives a premise for something to be done. Then you have First Corinthians 9:12. If we are partakers of this others power over you, are we not? Rather, nevertheless we have not abused.

If others are doing this and they are justified, okay, he says, are we not rather equally qualified? In verse 14, Those who said, now those who are the altar says they eat by the things are in the temple, in the altar. Then 14 says, Even so the Lord ordained that this, those who preach the gospel should live of the gospel. So he says, if the priest will live, you know, and this makes the error. People think that he's calling the New Testament minister a priest. No, he said if the priest can take of the things of the altar, why can't the minister of the gospel benefit from material things as he preaches the gospel? So it lays a foundation to make another conclusion. First Corinthians 14:6 where he's talking about speaking with tongues. And he mentions two to seven earthly instruments.

And all of that it says how much more tongues if earthly instruments can have a sound, you can recognize it, shouldn't tongues equally be recognized? And he was talking about interpretation of tongues. The First Corinthians 15, verse 13 and 14, if there's a dead, then Christ is not risen. That is, if you say that the dead will not be raised, the Christ is not risen, then if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is vain. So he says, if you are saying this, then this is the implication. And I remember one time that when I was telling people that you have to look at certain premises would defeat what you are saying. I'll give you an instance. And I said, people often assume that Shadrach, Meshach and Abednego. What they said was, our God that we serve is able to deliver us.

And if he does not deliver us, which we are not, still, we are still not going to worship you. And I said the premise of that kind of statement is a bit interesting. That means basically what they are saying is, well, God is able to deliver us, but he might not deliver us, but will not serve you. I said, look, if you say that, then on what basis will they worship him? If they are in the fire, there's no basis. Again, what is our there's nothing to worship. Again, when you are already in the fire, you are nothing to worship. Basically what they are saying is if you throw us in there, so if you throw us in there, so we don't, sorry, we will not serve you.

But if you now choose not to throw us in there, we will still not serve you. Not if God does not deliver us. That is not what they are saying. They were very absolute in saying that God will serve to deliver us, and if you don't throw us there, we will still not worship him. So always look at the implication of what you are saying. If you say that. What they meant is that if God doesn't deliver us, we don't care. I mean, that goes into the root of God's integrity because he said, we know that our God that will serve you deliver us, and he will yet deliver they said it twice. Then as a word, he's saying that if those deliver us will still not serve you. That's a very wrong premise of making a conclusion.

You should read it very well and say, what is this statement premised upon and what does it infer? Let's see other ones. 2Nd Corinthians 3, 7, 11 where you have Paul making that comparison, the source of death, righteousness, how shall not be so spirit be rather glorious and all that he makes that if this was glorious, why wouldn't this be glorious? Then he makes that comparison. Again, analogy. Second Corinthians 11, verse 13. False apostles he says, if Satan can transform to angel of light, they forget it. People that are fake can look real. Then Galatians 1:8,9 if angel will be judged for not saying the right thing, then let us two who are ministers of Christ, we are cursed. Galatians 1:8 and 9 Galatians 2:14 1 Timothy 3:5 if a man can't take care of his house, how would he be a good pastor?

First Timothy 3 and 5 Hebrews 2:2 if under the law, every transgressions and disobedience receive the just recompense of reward, how much more? If you hear the gospel of Jesus and you don't believe, how can you escape? That is, if under the law, every transgression just the compass of the world, how much more? If there's now salvation and then you say you don't want it, he says, yes, how shall you now escape? Hebrews 2, verse 2 to 3 Hebrews 6, 13, 18 God's faithfulness and all of that. Hebrews 9, 13 and 14 I'm going to take them like I said, one by one later. Hebrews 10, 28, 29 Hebrews 12, 9 talking about earthly fathers, how they train their children.

And then it says, how much more would your own father of spirits, who will now trace you up in righteousness, and then you will leave Hebrews 12:10, Hebrews 12:25, 1st Peter 4, 17, 18, that if this happens to the world, then judgment begins in the house of God. All that and all that. So you discover as a technique already within Scripture, where there is a comparison, there's a premise, then a conclusion in how things are said. Now, one other thing I mentioned earlier was, as it were, a progressive interpretation of what was written. Now, this is a little bit tricky because it can lead to people opening up vistas of further adaptation of Scripture. No Scripture, no. Now, within that Matthew 5, I said, if you observe that Jesus said, you are the head. Now, I said, he didn't use the phrase it's written.

And that was deliberate because like I mentioned earlier, he's dealing with how they were interpreted, those texts of Scripture. Then he says, now I say this to you. That was why when he was done, what they said was, this man doesn't speak like the scribes, which means the as verse 28 and 29. The issue was the interpretation of the written word. The way he handled it was very unique and different. And that's what he said, his doctrine, that is his explanation. Didactic. Now, if Jesus came to fulfill the law, the question should be is, don't forget again, we said that he never said, you are wrong. He only said, now I interpret it for you like this. That's very primary to hold on to and take somewhere.

So therefore, would there be a premise like that of a further explanation of what was written in the Old Testament? Yes. Now, the phrase that Jesus used a lot of times and Matthew applied much, the word anaginosko means to read again and again, or to read thoroughly, presupposes that the reader of the Old Testament must read cautiously. The first thing it tells you must not jump to conclusions. The second thing is you must not lift it out of a context or out of its world. Because we said context also involves the walls where it is written. Before you pray over a text of Scripture, find out what was happening when this was said, because words only have meanings within the context where they are used. When you lift a statement out of context, you give it a whole new meaning.

So the writers of the epistles were intelligent, careful enough to do exactly what Jesus did, which is one, this statement in his world, in his time, why was it made if it was made in his time and for this cause and for this reason, then as I understand it, and I say, well, what is the similarity of that time? And now that will be the context of that statement today, if I Leave this out of it and just give it a whole new meaning and ignore what was going on. I said this. Don't forget, we look at it also, historically speaking, that something was similar in the. Okay, I'm going to give you the. That bad guy. I don't want to rush.

When you look at the world of the Old Testament and you say much of what was said to people who were not where they should be. So they appeared like statements were made in futuristic fashion, or version two. Then you now come to the four Gospels. They are also not where they ought to be. The question is, okay, but what about today? Well, it will presuppose the same thing. But now, how do we bring it into our world? Now you now begin to say, okay, there was an authority, the kings and rulers of their day, and Jesus was their king. So you now had two ages running concurrently. You had the age of the wicked one, the God of this world, and then what is called eternal life or the life of this age. So you had eternal life.

And the exact opposite of eternal life is the God of this world running concurrently. So you have. In that instance, you will have the born again man, as it were, in an exile position. You have the flesh and the spirit. So it now becomes, how do I bring that to my world? That what is being said here is said to people who are not where they ought to be. There's a promise, they are not there yet and they are holding on to it. Now what has happened? Now the king has come, the kingdom is here. But we see another age right before us. And Jesus will say, the prince of this world, the ruler of this world, came to me. We saw yesterday at the parable of Sower that he said, the wheat, can you remember that? And the tares grow together.