And the writers of the epistles now said, neither bond nor free or male and female, or Jew and Greek, but they are all one in Christ while they are all writing from the beginning. So to begin to capitalize on a system that was allowed because of depraved humanity is unfair on painting the character of God scholastically. It is wrong, unjust and unfair. Because no true scholar ignores context and history. No one, every true scholar will say what was happening. You will only be fair when you say actually this was why this was said. Whilst every other thing is studied within the historical context. Very biased scholars deliberately ignore the history and even historical records at the time the events of scriptures happen to ask, who were the Amalekites? Have you found out who they were? What were they planning to do?

Who were the Hittites? I don't want to say Jebusites, but I have to say it. Who were they? Who were the Philistines? You know, it's easy to read the four Gospels and say, well, the Romans, you know, they operated a tyrannical government. They were oppressing them in tax and all that. But that was very mild to what happened among the nations. And God is a God of love. He will teach love, but he will have to teach love to a people who were already sinful and vengeful. He would therefore take incremental steps till he became a man and said, this is the ideal. This was where the journey was going to end. Let me see anything. Understand that you must therefore study it and see it in its own world. Acts 17. Paul was clear. He says, God created humanity in one man.

The essence of the Acts 17:28. So therefore, sorry, 17:26, one blood, all nations, that is one man. In other words, why was Moses writing Genesis 1 and 2 to say racism is not God made, it's man made. Government is man made. So if you are going to look at God's attitude to slavery, see what he did in Egypt to Israel. Let's see one last thing, then we'll take a Short break. Exodus 6. Hope you are learning something so you can see what it means to say contextual. Is it clear? So to see things in the Old Testament and ignore the context is likely unfair. The question you'll have asked is this. If nations came against nations without God being involved, would they have retaliated? Yes.

Would they have claimed territories by going into a nation, taking captive of them, cleanse them or kill them, take care of them? Yes. If the same Israel today is said to have been disobedient, God now comes and says, no, he corrects them. After they had kings, after they had Moses, they now had promised prophets. And the prophets were not the heads of military camps. They were simply spokespersons. In other word, God is now getting to what he has been saying. Fight with words. Then Jesus now comes the captain of the army. And he had no plaque. He had no legion of soldiers. He had disciples. What we have seen is a gradual progression of God's revelation. In our world, there's still wickedness. In our world, there's still harshness and the world's justice system.

But we have his kingdom here, and you and I are in that kingdom. This is the story of the Bible. You must not ignore the context. You must not say, but why did God allow? If he didn't allow it, they would have done it anyway. And he said that the issue he had with them was he had an unbelieving heart. They were not listening to him anyway. They were disobedient. They didn't believe. So to make God responsible for what the Jews did is not wrong because he took responsibility for their feelings. But to say he did it would be injustice. Let me see how, if you understand that, is that very clear? They would have done it anyway. So here we are. So for God's attitude to slaves is what he did to Israel. I will redeem you.

And the word Gal is to become your redeemer by being your kinsman redeemed. Genesis 48:16, Exodus 15:13. It therefore means that I will come and be just like you. I will buy you unto myself. The ideal, therefore, is that there's no slaves, no bonds offering. Galatians 3:28 First Corinthians 12:13. Look at First Corinthians 7:20. Paul. Let every man abide in wherein he is called. Are you called a servant? Care not for it. If thou may be free, use it rather, for he that is called in the Lord, being a servant is the lost free man likewise also he that is called being free is Christ's servant. You are bought with the price. Be ye not therefore the servants of men. But then let us let every man weigh in his call. Therefore abide with God. Do you understand what he's saying?

Paul has told you the human institution and God's word. He has not denied the human institution. But he says there is a higher calling in God, which is in Christ Jesus. And this is the story of the Old Testament. God mentioning slaves doesn't mean that he created it. When God mentions or says that they killed their enemies, does it mean that he made it happen? No. As a brother Hagin said, we need to therefore be careful to cut through the knife with a knife. What did he do and what did he permit? He didn't permit it like you guys. You can do it's fine. No, he had no choice. Would Jesus have stopped Peter when he brought out the sword? He told them they were coming to arrest him with swords. They went to buy swords. This is not Revelation.

People that are living with you, he said, they will buy sword. They will come against them. He said, how many swords? I said, we have so many. I said, enough. Just stop there. So they harmed themselves. Did he stop them from not believing? Did he stop them from doubting? No. That is, God now became a man and still could do nothing. That is. Somebody's talking to you on the phone. I understand he has now come. I am lowly, meek in heart. If somebody slaps you one chick, turn the other one, say, whoa, glory. Then they went to buy sword. Now imagine 12 times what will make 3 million. And that is your church. He brought out his word, caught Marcus because at the back of their minds, the Messiah will be the head of the military.

And Jesus didn't help their matter when he took them to the wilderness and multiplied 502 fish. He asked them to sit in companies of 50s and 20s. And this is exactly how the military used to do so. They said, this man is preparing us. When we take over, then he now dies. Now go back to the Old Testament and see why God had to permit it. Do you understand it? Like I told someone who was of course, like I said, pretending atheist. I said, you dishonestly ignore Jesus as the fulfillment. I said, mathematically and logically and historically. Even atheist theologians, I know some of them, a theologian who is an atheist that goes to study theology so that he can debunk Bible stories.

They all agree on the systematic pointing at Jesus by all the stories of The Bible, they all agree that you can't. There's no if. You lose the logical prism, mathematical prism, historical Venus, you come to the same conclusion that all the commentators point to one. So people came up with a theory that no. What happened was that some people just sat down in one place and wrote it so that it would be similar. Because that's the only explanation. Like I said a few years ago, if the Bible is a book of lies, there must be a wonderful set of lies because you will have to end Malachi and wait for Jesus. Everybody was made to wait, which means you were not reading perfect history.

So I saw the guy, I said, if there is Jesus in your Bible, then you are dishonest to see what he did. I said, eventually you will say God killed in the Old Testament. I'm talking like, I'm arguing like God killed the Old Testament. And at the end you start to mock us that Christ died. You see that you are fools. How can the person who is killing now be the one who died? So who killed him? Is it suicide? The guy said, no, it's not suicide. You know, historically he was hung on the cross. Exactly. The people who hanged him on the cross, they were those who did not believe him. He said, yes. So who has been killing all of long? You have been dishonest.

You can't have Jesus in that Bible and still blame God for genocide because there was genocide without Israel. However, genocide stops when Jesus hangs on the cross and said, this is me, the God of Israel. If the God of Israel is Jesus Christ, and that's why people are fighting, is not him, it's someone else. So who was he? It means that you have enough in the Bible to correct your impression of the stories. Therefore we must look at scriptures in their world. One thing we'll say then we shut with when they said Moses commanded us. Notice that Jesus rephrased their sins. Moses permitted you because of the hardness of your heart. So yes, it's a command, but that command is a permission. Do what you have in your heart, but don't do this much. And what would you have told a disobedient people?

Harsh hearted, you just try to restrain them as much. How many of you have tried to stop people who are fighting before? Have you tried it and somebody broke, but. You push him back a bit, say, hold on, it's enough. Say no, no. That is the man that was under the Old Testament. So when you read the New Testament, right, And it seems like things are watered down. No, there's a presumption in your favor that your heart is not hard. It's a presumption in your favor. But you know, we have bread, some bread. Prey die today. With all the information in Ephesians, you now go to those stories. He's a mighty man of war with efficiency. With Colossians, someone told me in battle, he said, the God Testament is more active, more act.

So you must read it in their own world and see that the law of sin and death was a gradual step from. Let's put it like this, it was a gradual step Back to Genesis 1 and 2. Right? Come on. That's what it is. But you cannot ignore the context of those things was in their own world. So it will be very unfair on Israel if we refuse to see. I don't hear they were disobedient to see what was in their world then. Today, if you are a king. I remember when I was going to bury my dad and someone said, that now that we're going to bury your father, they're going to have to kill people and all of that.

There's somebody in the governor's office said the way he said it was very funny whether or not, Chris, you go and bury somebody because the king died. He said everybody, including their chief priests, would jail them. But there was a time that was not a problem. Now imagine in that time, a king now comes and say, no, rather than. Rather than kill someone, why can't we put someone behind bars? You say, this is a guy, a kind guy. He doesn't want to kill. Rather you put the person behind bars. But today when you read it, say, why will you put it behind bars? It's not better than to kill. I see 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/