I won't say I've Said enough of that because it is a core part of what we are saying by the path now. So oftentimes you will see that history. Now, my favorite Bible is the King James Bible. And why is it so. Well, maybe it's old, maybe I'm used to it. Maybe it's close to the originals. Just about any excuse, okay. But then I found out that a good number of those who are atheists, I have this impression here and there about God did have it because of their studies of the King James. That got me very curious because I know, and you should know that there is no translation, which without the bias of the translator. Is like saying, the way we hold translations, we hold them in awe. But you know, we should not.

We should not because it means we should judge translations. We should, we should judge translations the way we judge Christian books. Maybe the reason why we don't want to judge it is because since they don't have stories that are personal to the people. But there is no way, just like I said, if you put the Bible on the pulpit and put a microphone there, it won't say anything. Somebody has to pick it up. And the moment the human element is there or human vessel is there, the human element can't be missed. So we have theology therefore of the translators. Now, does this not give us fear? It does not. That is why you have a duty as a teacher. It doesn't. Look at the.

Look at the way the subject of second Thessalonians, if you listen to our series on Antichrist, was mesmerized and then somehow you could read into. And one of the ways you can really view those is look at the italics. The italics gives it away. Now why did you put this. Look at the phrase call to be saints. Why would anybody could to be there called to be saints? So I did an investigation and I found out that a sufficient number. I won't give you the number because I want to conclude it a sufficient number. I mean, I have gone as far as materials over almost 1000 years old. I looked at those who constituted it and I found out to my chagrin a good number were Calvinists. So naturally, and don't forget, you are taking the Hebrew language into English.

What you will say in Hebrew with the same statement may mean something different from how I say it in English. So the moment I now take it literally in English, I will misinform my readers. Let me give you the easiest of it which we are going to look at. He suffered them not to go. You think that's easy. Because I suffered them not to go. So you will say now, when the King James was applied was interpreted suffer simply means, you know, when it says suffer means something happened to you. You took something upon yourself. Now because that word was now a big word, like a compound word. When you allow something to it's also called suffering. You know the same thing. You took something, you allowed it. So only one word represented many things.

So when I say long suffering, what will come to my mind is for a long time. Meanwhile. Oh, can you say it out to beat for long, meanwhile, it just means allow. But you know, if you take beating, you allowed it too. But it doesn't mean the same thing. That's the easiest of everything. So that is Old English. But then within everybody knows that if you take Yoruba, which I speak, and you take Igbo or Ausa, three mainland Nigerian languages, and you say to yourself that I'm going to interpret each thing literally, you confuse your audience. There is no language without its own grammar, sometimes without the history behind the use of words. In fact, in certain instances, what you will forbid in one land, another person will call treasures.

So your illustrations of what is treasures or what is of treasure will have to change immediately. It has to change. Like I said, what will the Egypt's man called a place of worship or the place of worship? A building he will put up by himself. He will not put something inside and say, that is God. You and I know that is idol worship. So I'm in Egypt. How do I teach them that God wants to dwell with them? I will have to use the idol worship then within that description, I will now make it a shadow. They will now say it is pointing to something else. So which means that the interpreter must listen to my words more than the things I eventually practiced. Please follow what I'm saying here. Something critical is all the. What we call the Word of God.

Please look up. Let me say something in raw ways. What we call the Word of God, Is it the Word of God or the Word of Men? Is the word of men that explain. The Word of God is the language of men. Explaining the Word of God, it's like saying. It's like giving the story of a French man in English. That's quite a weak interpretation. So what we call the Word of God, it has its own genre within human beings, amongst human beings, its own vocabulary. The moment I don't know that the Bible was not forced. The writers of scripture were not Speaking English, that is a major thing we have to cross. They're not speaking English. So the usage of heaven and earth is not how you call it. So I said temple. So he puts together something they were doing in Egypt.

In the book of Genesis, was there any house? No. The household were the nations where God would dwell. Were the nations. And look at something he does in Genesis 1:20, 28. He says, Let us make man in our Salem after our likeness. Let them have dominion. Pay attention there. It's in Egypt where he warned them, when God spoke to you, did you see any winged creatures? They said no. Did you see any animal? They said no, knowing that is exactly what they were doing in Egypt. So he now says, God made the man in his image after his likeness. God made, not man made. So which means that right from Genesis he has spoken about God's indent. Because image means to put an imprint on something so God will be printed on his. On his creature.

He was saying, when it comes to the fulfillment of God's promise, you are not going to look away. It will be an indwelling. So idolatry. Look at this. The worship of God is an indwelling. But how best would you explain it? How would God achieve it? You will use emblems of idol worship. That is what you have in case you are looking like. What does this mean? What is the cross of Christ? The cross of Christ is not God's creation. The cross of Christ is used by Romans. It's an instrument of injustice, torture. But today, what do we call the Gospel? The message of the cross. One key scripture we'll have to look at. Very well. Is Genesis 50:20 what you meant for evil? God turned it around for good. Let me say this. That is the story of the Bible.

God turned it around for good. So knowing that it is human language, I must therefore be very careful. Sorry, I skipped something. So I found that I discovered that no one wonder because yes, if you read the Bible, you will be moving to and fro. You will see here there's a problem of the Messiah where your heart will receive ice water. There's no way you. Maybe the Psalms of David, to an extent is when you get into the four gospels. Wow. The utterances, the actions. And you look at some of this. We explored the other time. The way they clear the whole place. Your way out is to say, well, let me see another way out. They didn't hear God well, okay, so if they didn't hear God well, you may be right.

How do you know that the one you have faith in, they heard God? Well, so we mustn't run into boxes like rats not to confront issues. So you didn't hear God? Well, it was in that time, because that dispensational thing, that was then. So what God did. Let me give you another interesting one. Man has seen God is angry. So he had the demands of justice now brought out his son. How do you think that sounds? Try and tell that story to your son about the heavenly Father. And he says, daddy. Then he asks you, can you do this to me? Then he said, no. So you're not like God. So we will meet a whole lot of that. God poured all his fury on his son, that is. And people say, and you hear this. I said, why can't God just. Why sacrifice?

Why can't he just let go? Why do you have to get something in return? Well, that is the. You say, well, the person. Those are demands of justice. Who set the demands of justice? Well, I read a book years back, he said, that is the universal system of justice. And I kind of found out, no, there is no universal, even till now. So who set it? Another challenge is that in Egypt they pacified gods. And that's what you have as the atonement. He now used their language to explain God's pacifying as the one who makes the offering. But he's not pacifying the devil, which requires us to walk around it to understand what he's saying. So we shouldn't create bombs. And you see, there are things you can say. And you and I and our church particular, we're getting to a point.

We, our theology. We must dot the I's, cross the T's and ensure that we don't say something. Well, take it like that. No, I want generations to come to know that I said the word of God the proper way. So the work has to be done. The challenge will be the ability to know why the epistles interpreted the Old Testament the way they did. There must be something they did. Well, we can say it's the Holy Spirit. We all have the Holy Spirit today. Whatever made the Holy Spirit or made them used to the Holy Spirit so well that they were able to calm our nerves with the epistles because we should have had nerves at all. But let's say we have them. It's something we must find out. So the first barrier is the language barrier.

You cannot take two languages the same way and not find unifiers, distinctions in them, even in phrases used by them. You can't look at the term ecclesia. Ekklesia is a Greek word called out. It's known in Greek etymology as those who make, who carry out responsibilities and have rights and privileges. They make laws and govern on behalf of an emperor. But then ecclesia is the same word used for the entire nation of Israel when they left Egypt. But the point is, what is unifier? The nation of Israel was meant to carry out God's instructions. So Paul found a unifier using the word ecclesia. They mean two different things in their language. But the unifier is that because theology behind it is the same thing. Paul used the word church. Who's following what I'm saying here? Do you get what I'm saying here now?

So he's talking to the Greek, he will say ecclesiastical. And they think, oh, those who are called out to have rights and privileges and make laws. He was talking to the Jews, ecclesia, a family. But if he talks to the Jews and Greeks family that makes laws on behalf of God. Do you understand? So he has to match the two walls. Is that clear? So now we have to cross the grammar. Let me read an excerpt from the book. The Wrath of God. You say, where is it? That's what I'm reading for you. Now. This is an excerpt. Recall that the Bible is a piece of literature. It implies that the Bible was documented, thus comprised of different styles of writing such as poetry, prose, narrative, summative, direct and indirect communication styles.

However, what is indigenous to the Hebrew is what is referred to as Ibrahism. H E B R A I S M. It's an expression that describes the mode of communication indigenous to the Hebrew people. It is the Jewish religion, culture and character. Is a character, spirit and practice distinctive to the Hebrew people. Now, it describes their thought pattern. Pay attention please. Now, many times Bible scholars have a textual problem that may be a product of their present day limited knowledge of how ancient Hebrew language was used. Therefore, because translators might be dealing with a dialectic phenomena, that is an issue of foreign loan words which were borrowed. That is when you take a word from another language, it's called a borrowed word. The English language, for example, has extensive foreign languages. Hallelujah, Amen, Camel, Messiah, Rabbi, Sabbath, Satanic. They are not English words.