Every time you are reading the epistles, what you are reading is the Old Testament. The epistles don't stand alone. Okay, so Romans 4, 3, you know, I judge Romans a bit. Now let's go for it. For what saith the Scriptures? What saith the scriptures? Abraham believed God was counting for righteousness. Now whenever a phrase like this is used, don't forget that it was not in chapters and verses. So when I say what sayeth the Scriptures, he is not expecting you to merely reference that portion is telling you to go through the story that this. So usually when you see a reference, that reference is used. Sometimes in metonymy it is a part of a whole. That is what saith the scripture, let's say the book of Genesis. The writer is expecting you to read the whole story.

You can't successfully read the Abraham story without what it puts right or what it is in the right about. So when it says Abraham believed God, it was counted to him for righteousness. Now notice the phrase counted to him is the word logizomai. See how many times that phrase is going to be used. In verse 4, reckon not of grace, but of death. In verse 6 imputes righteousness without works. In verse 8 the Lord will not impute sin. Verse 9 to Abraham for righteousness. Romans 4. Now look at verse 17. Just a phrase as it's written. I have made thee a father of many nations, before whom he believed even God who quickened the dead and calleth those things to be. Now by calling Abraham father, this is where the Jews without having get it.

Because if Abraham had Isaac and he had Ishmael, that means father, which is the word. Pathah is used for an example. An example. It is to that intent that Abraham is the father here. An example now before him whom he believed, God, who quickened the dead and calleth those things that be not as though they were. Now there's an argument whether it's referring to God or Abraham, but the truth is if it's referring to God, then Abraham calling the things that be not as though they were will be faith in God's faithfulness. So there's really nothing to fight about here. Who against who believed in hope. Now the background here is that you are reading the Isaac story, but the Isaac story is imputed for righteousness. So it's imputed that is, it is recorded for a purpose.

It is in his account for a purpose. So watch this. Who against hope, believed in hope that he might become, you know, in Genesis 12:15, we didn't know exactly what he believed. We didn't know what it was. But now we find out this is what he believed. How come Isaac came in Genesis 18:19 and it was believed Genesis 15:6. Pay attention. There is a narrator here who is the one imputing the story. He is the one letting you see the relevance. So Abraham's believing God is not in historical sequence as to summarize it. That is why he is called righteous in two places. By doing what is right in one instance, by believing in one instance by the fact that he leads his family. So the issue for you is to understand how it is narrated. Now look at this.

He now mentioned Sarah's womb dead in 19. He Saga not as the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God. He staggered not at now 21, being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able to perform, and therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. I thought that. That Genesis 15:6, because obviously Genesis 17 and 18 is where Isaac came. But the point is Moses is writing an account that is a contrast. And so he doesn't exactly put it in the sequential order, but he has, let's say, the end product of the entire story. That's why it says, what does the scripture say? Showing you a part, like I mentioned earlier, of a whole verse 22. It was imputed to him for righteousness. Now watch the next verse.

It was not written for his sake alone that it was imputed to him. It says, but for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead, who was delivered for offenses and was raised for our justification. So the Isaac story becomes for us, you know, a narrative of faith in Christ, Which means that. Now let me put it like this. It's like a piece of music. Somebody plays a piece of music. Some of you are playing music. Then you pair, you say, well, there's one particular tune I like. I remember in Lift him up, there's a way Abraham Labrey will play the guitar. I like that portion. I can wait for that portion and that particular point.

I played two, three, four times, but I cannot record recall having only that portion and then playing it and say, I've listened to good music sometimes. Some of us can get so particular about a tune in an entire piece of music. As if we lose sight of the whole music itself. The Isaac story is only a tune in the entire music. That means the Isaac story leads us to something else. So the Isaac story is imputed, written for our sakes. By showing this, if Genesis is written for the sake of, let's assume this is just Rome, people that will come in almost 5,000 years. It means the Isaac story is also predictive. Because we don't see Isaac inherit the earth. He didn't inherit the nations, he didn't. The moment that happens, that means it is predictive.

So it is only when you get to Jesus at last day, at last fulfilled, all that begins to make the sense. So we've seen righteousness here in Romans 4, verse 3, Romans 4, verse 5, Romans 4, verse 6. It is. The term is so encased here. Romans 4, verse 9, Romans 4, verse 11, Romans 4, verse 13. They have verse 22 then. Well, basically that by Romans 1, of course there's Romans 3 before you get here. Romans 3:21, righteousness. Romans 3, 25, 26. Now go to Romans 1, the first place were there earlier. Therein is the righteousness of God. So can you expand that Therein is the promised work of God to put things right or to put man. Okay, put things right. And so the man who believes is found in what God has put right.

So the promised, the promise of God to put things right and put man in what he has put right in the Holy Scriptures. We'll leave that for now and explore another word, judgment. So we're going to have righteousness, justified, justification, then the just, and then now judgment. Of course, that's another word that you have to drag them along. You have, it's 115 times in New Testament Greek you have different words. You have krina, krino, kata krima. For example, Look at John 3:16. I need you to listen to the series if you have to handle these subjects, judgment, judging others and condemnation and judging others. In John 3:16 it says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but has everlasting life. Now look at slowly what he says here.

There are a few texts I've seen that uses this word in the contrast. I've not seen many like this. Now the next statement, you know, you can stop there. Verse 17, you say, well, God did not send his world to the world to condemn the world, but that the world to him might be saved. So you now say there's no condemnation at all when you preach the gospel and all that. But you need to understand it's the same word. So now that word which you will find use here, the word krino, it means to think, to decide. It means to make a separation, to make a distinction. So in salvation, John 3:16, so don't think that condemned here again. That's why I said that, you know, some verses will output as judgments, okay?

Which I think condemnation is a bit too harsh, because though it's the same Greek word, you know, to decide, it can be positive, can be negative. So it's like to make a separation, to make a distinction, you know? You know, in righteousness. Please look here, please. I want to say something. You cannot look up, please, this is important, please. You cannot do right without judgment. So you cannot put things right without judgment. Number one, There must be what is wrong. There must be a clear distinction. So you cannot teach righteousness. And there is no krino, krima or krima. You can't. It has to come together. So now God, let me ask you, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. What would that be? Promised to do right. Whosoever believes will not perish, but has everlasting life.

That would be his righteousness. But you can't have his righteousness without the judgment. So God sent not his Son into the world to separate the world. That is, this is for everybody. So there is no separation, but that all men through him might believe. John 3:16. Look at the next statement. 18. He that believes on him is not. Let's use that word. Separated is not separate is not taken separately, is not distinguished. Okay, but he that believes not is distinguished. Now in the Greek you have the word, the first one, krenetea in the participle. The second one is the word kekratia K E K R I T A I Being is like a continuous term. If you do not believe you are being separated because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son. So this condemnation or judgment is.

It is his man word towards God. So God has judged unbelief as different from faith in His Son. So in righteousness you judge. But look at that judgment. That judgment is not the making of God, it is the knowledge of God. Or call it another shade of the word Krino is the word opinion. God gives righteous judgment when he says is because it is proper and true. So he that believes not is separated. I don't care who told you that's your own opinion. But God has given a decision on it. He has given. Call it a distinction on it, and his judgment is true. Verse 19. This is the condemnation. Now, this is a noun. Now, Chris, is a decision. K R I S used 48 times. This is the decision that light has come to the world.

And men loved darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. You find that in John 5:24. He that believes has everlasting life and shall not come to that decision. But it's passed from death to life. John 5:29, resurrection unto damnation. John 5:30. And my judgment is just, because I see not my. I signal my own will. John 12:31, the prince of this world. John 12:31. This is the judgment of the world. Now that the prince of the world shall be cast out. John 16. A will come to that of judgment because the prince of this world. Verse 11 is judged. So crisis is a finality. That is why it is used for the end. John 3:18 or 19. The end. John 5:24. The end. John 5:29 and 30. The end. John 12:31. The end. John 16, 8 and 11. The end. That is.

This is the summary. Summary of everything you have done. Let's. Let's go further. That was thesis also. 2Nd Thessalonians 1:5. So what will be the basis of the schism? The creno. That distinction of good and evil. Are you there? That distinction of good and evil. That distinction, I said before you, life and death choose life. That distinction is the screen, that separation. And for Genesis 2, there is a separation. Evil, good, unbelief, faith, Cain, Abel. That separation is there. So the gospel. Does the gospel carry that separation? Does it carry the separation in application? No. Everybody will believe. Everybody can believe. But in the responses of men, we now have a distinction. There is to believe and there is not to believe. So to not believe. Is there a final decision on it? Yes. And that decision is just, proper. And why is it?

Just hear me very well. The term proper is equation, equality, fairness. What is fair means? You got what you wanted, So you got what you wanted. 11Th Thessalonians 1:5. The righteous judgment of God. What is that? Righteous judgment of God. Look at verse 8. Them that know not God and them that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. So it is therefore proper for them to be destroyed. So let me ask a question now, please. Is the destruction of the sinner righteous? Yes. Is it in the righteousness of God? Yes, it is painfully so. First, that's the word here again is crisis. First Timothy 5:24. Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment somebody. That is the final decision. So in Romans 8:1 you have there is therefore now no condemnation. That word to them that are in Christ.