You had a lot of fracture cutting of body parts. There was if at some point I got really irritated. It was like you were in. What do you call this place? Abatio caught. This one shall be cut off. That one shall be cut off. And one incident. They said that. That you shall. You would that when the person's hair is removed, it shall be done for a public display. I know you have seen instances where there was a someone for maybe for blasphemy, the head was caught. It has happened in Nigeria and they'll take the head and display. They are not. It's a law that been in existence for thousands of years. So imagine Moses having to come in and then modifying such legislation. That's happened before, I think was a fellow like that Gideon Akaluka, who was meant to have.

Is it desecrated the Quran. And even. Even at that Muslims will tell you that no, they've modified that. They'll tell you that's been modified, but you still see it in a good number of their books. I'm just trying to say that just like human laws evolved, you know, over time, the same thing is what you find in scripture. Hope that's making sense. The Middle Assyrian laws, which was 11100 years. 1100 Years before Christ equally had a lot of bodily mutilation. A lot. They did not change it later. One thing I also found out is that there was no regard for human lives. And that was something Moses tried to instill. No regard for human life. What do I mean? If your ox, you know, like if you're. Let me give you an instance now. There was.

There was a loss that says that if your ox. They use Oxford farming. If your ox should go into another person's farm and should maybe destroy the farm, they will kill the owner. That's really ridiculous. Also if your ox you kill another one, another person, they will kill the owner. Whereas Moses changed it and said just pay half minor to the victim and the family. That is pay compensation. Oh no, no. That's not what I didn't say if your ox. Sorry, that was really a ridiculous thing. I said if your oxy, for example, kill. That's for the rich. Now, because they owned it killed someone, they will usually pay compensation for the victim. Just give them just half a day's wages, you know, so it was really very oppressive as a law. It favored the rich particularly.

Like I said, it's for those who are very rich. What has. Moses will say there should be value for lives. Exodus 21, verse 28 to 36. He gives very severe punishment and up to what, the kind of. The kind of meat he shouldn't be taking, eating, and all of that. So Moses put a lot of premium on lives. Not that you just pay off and move on. So you could just have your animals stray and do very, you know, horrible things. Also, this is a very funny one. In the code, for example, if you're. If you are constructing something and then, you know, the building collapses on a minor. They will go and meet the builder and kill his own child. Yeah. Was really horrible. So. And Moses in Deuteronomy 24:6. Does mitigate that and says, no, you don't. 24 6.

No man shall take me. Shall take neither or the upper milestone to pledge. For it takes a man's life to pledge. So you don't. So it did change a lot of that. You don't go. You don't suffer for your parents. Also, have you seen how many of you used to watch Chinese films? Bruce Lee and then. I'm talking about Jackie Shan. Those ones. I really said those ones were in very fine cars. Bob. Bruce Lee. Have you watched Enter the Dragon? Did you watch it? Snake in the monkey shadow. Is it Bruce Lee? Huh? Oh, no, That dragon is Bruce Lee. What happens? Movies again, I've forgotten them. Enter the Shadow. No, you don't say. There's something they used to do there and we used to make fun of it. You killed my father. I'll kill your father too.

If you used to hear that, I used to think it was a joke. But in my studies of their history, it was actually their law that, you know, revenge was a legislation you had to revenge. And oftentimes that will be at your discretion. It will be at your discretion. Whereas Moses tried to, you know, Moses differentiated between accidental killings and intentional ones. Where today we have the manslaughter and murder, of course, when you get to call, people say, lawyers have started lying. You know, I saw him and they said, look, they said, no, this wasn't. I remember one of those Cases in court that the guy they were having a fight, so he had an ax. So he, as they were fighting, he brought out the axe and he turned it around and used the. The back. The back part.

They use the sharp part to hit the guy. The guy was injured, took away in the. Then died. They said because he turned it around, showed that he wasn't intentional. He said ha. And so they had this. They called the men's rear ax me. They said that you look at someone's intention, not what he has done is a. Of course today I don't think they apply that much. Again, whatever the judge says, especially in Nigeria today. But there was the intention of looking at the aspect of looking at the intention. And Moses mitigated that every mother is not the same, you know. And again it's modified legislation. Exodus 21. So you'll be fair right to look at it as legislation. Right? Come on. A judicial system and vis a vis today's laws. You discover that just what was applicable then. Verse 12 to 13.

He that smites a man so that he die, he shall be put to death surely. But if a man lies not in wait for God deliver me into his hand, then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee. Then he says, but if a man comes presumptuously upon his neighbour to slay him with guile, thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die. Then he says, and he that smites his father and his mother shall be put to death. He that steals a man, none of them now they and all that. Verse 20. If a man smites his servant or is made with a rod and he dies under his hand, it shall be sorely punished. What is that? If he's continued a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his money.

So that's quite something we also have to look at. So where he now says an eye for an eye and all that is. You look at it if it's not intentional, if it's manslaughter, you don't punish it the same way. I Wait. Okay, 29. That's what I was the one I was talking about earlier. Verse 28. If an ox gore a man or a woman that they die, then the ox shall be surely stoned and his flesh shall not be eaten. That's Genesis 9:4. That is don't touch is a murderous one, but the owners of the calf shall be quit.

But if the ox were wont to push with his own in time past, and he shall Be satisfied to his owner that he had not kept him in, but he had killed a man or his woman, the ox shall be stoned, and his owner also shall be put to death. That is, if you had known that this ox had been a consistent use of such a animal shows that you are also liable it be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give you for rant of his life. Whatever that is, he now has a compensation that he can do, whether he have got a son or have got a daughter, according to judgment shall it be done unto him. And all. So he. There's a mitigation of manslaughter. Numbers 35, Verse 31. Moreover, let me start from 30.

Whosoever kills any person, the murderer shall be put to death by the mouth of two or three. But if one witness shall not inspire against any person, this is to mitigate revenge jungle justice. Moreover, he shall not take no sacrifice for the life of a murderer which is guilty of death. Then he says, and he shall be put to death. So that means you have to have witnesses to show that was intentional. So therefore differences between murder and manslaughter. So what Moses was basically doing is having less stricter laws. In fact, nobody has been able to substantiate that the laws of Moses were the harshest. In fact, every historian that's honest agrees that whatever Moses was doing was the mildest in the whole world. In the whole known world was the mildest of what was in existence.

So by saying should pay ransom for manslaughter. That on his own says a lot. So we see the laws of Moses as modified legislation. Modified legislation. That is, this was what was in existence. And like I said, vis a vis. Today. We have people still have that in their laws all over the world. I mentioned America, United Kingdom, Europe and just all of that. So it's what exists. It was a nation. And just like every nation has its own commercial laws, their criminal laws, Israel had its own and Nigeria also developed it. Looking at countries around it, for example, we built a lot. Initially when we got independence, we just adopted the British constitution. Modified it because we came from the. Was it the different literature Constitution, Mark Fercin we adopted all of that.

Then eventually came to 1960 constitution, then 66 republican constitutional constitution. Then by 79 we changed it and adopted the federal system. So the same way the laws didn't come from the spirit. Do you get it? The laws came from existing laws and said, you know, you are now a different nation. We have to change this, adopt it look at what we can modify here and there and all of that. But don't forget it was a school man master. The promise of God was God's word. Let me see if you understand that. It was God's word and that's for that. So our approach therefore to look at the criminal justice system is to look at it in fairness and in comparison to their day.

And if you're going to be a diligent scholar of this, you must not but have enough information about the existing legislation before this was done and then what was prevalent in their world and see what it was trying to correct and step down from hope. That is clear. Okay, so we'll look at genocide after all that. What we call genocide today. I recall reading something somebody said this morning, just early this morning and the. What's AI again? Amnesty International. They claim that the Boko Haram war was a war against humanity and they claim that the Nigerian army usually kill innocent people. And you know, there was a time Nigeria wanted to buy arms and ammunition and Obama said there was one code.

I've forgotten the name again, something militant law or something that says that because there was loss of lives that Nigeria cannot buy directly. That's why they didn't give the Jonathan regime so the Jonathan administration arms and they had to go outside and go and buy black market. Then they caught them in a jet and they made it. You know, the APC just made a meal of that. Very unfairly because the truth is that they had no choice but to go and buy black market. But if it's politics, everything is fair. Yeah, you have to know that it's just fair. Just hit at the person. Just make sure you win and all that. So, so the guy was saying this morning that this is to like aid the militants or call it this bandits or these terrorists by asking the army to relax.

That don't take human, you know, what do you call it now Make a human collateral. Now imagine Israel. We're not there yet. We're going to study this one well and we're going to do it in detail. Imagine Israel having to go to a nation that was their enemy and you know they had to. And then you say well we're just looking at a war. And you say, you know what, try and preserve some lives. You know, yourself may not find it as making sense you that you are born again. You say no, prove clear the old thing because when they come back say come on, that's. I mean that's. That's a superior army. Why do you call the U.S. army superior? Because they know how to clear everything. And.

Yeah, so I'm just trying to tell you that the fact that these things were done by Israel, right. Doesn't mean that what they were doing at that day was peculiar to them. And we're going to look at it in detail. You know, we are not justifying it. You get my point. But we are only explaining it in the context of what happened. I mean, who throws a bomb somewhere, then tells the bomb, avoid children? Do you get my point? No. Except now things have developed. Now you can pick an Osama bin Laden in his room. And the way they did that one, the guy was harmless and they killed him. They didn't want to have him alive. And then I said, he didn't do anything. No, in fact, they just killed him. They didn't.