In fact, in Exodus 23, verse 4 and 5, he says if your enemy's ox or donkey wanders off, be sure to take it back to him. If you see the donkey or someone you ate who hates you falling down under his load, don't leave it there. Be sure to help him with it. So critically, you should see that there's a system that embraces people from other nations. Now another question will be, now that why then does Moses say, don't charge the Jew interest when you loan need money is anti Jew to actually get interest. And you discover that it's an Eastern culture. What you have as Islamic banking, they don't charge interest, but they've modified it. Today what they do is rather borrow you money. So you go and give collateral and all of that.

You say, what do you want to do with your business? Then you say, well, I want to buy a house. Say, well, we're going to give you money. And what's the house for? You want to rent, lease it out for people to be paying rent? Okay, we'll give you the money. But when the rent is going out, you take this percentage. You take this percentage. And it was a culture of that day. So Moses said the same way, do it for native people. Don't do it. Don't, I mean, do things for yourselves. Don't charge. However, in Exodus 23, verse 4 or verse 20, sorry, He gives instruction. Did I say that? He gives instruction as touching the same thing unto a stranger. Thou mayest lend upon usury, that's interest.

But to thy brother, Thou shalt not let up a usury, that the Lord thy God may bless thee in all that thou set thy hand in the land which you have go to possess. Now why did he say this? Is because it was found that they were taking the monies to do business and make profit. So he said, look, if they make profit, you charge the interest. That's the basis. Leviticus 19:33 to 34 already shows you that you treat the stranger. Okay, if the stranger suggests within your land, you shall not vex him, the stranger dwells with you. There shall be unto you as one born among you. Thou shalt love thyself, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt and the Lord your God. So they were to treat strangers well, because they were equally strangers.

And let me say this, if you look at the history of their day, this was arguably the best practice of their time. Now, in Jeremiah 23, verse 3, 23, verse 3, an Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the Lord, even to their 10 generation shall they not enter into the congregation of the Lord forever. So you ask a question, but why then were they discriminated in chapter two? In fact, in today's day, due to agricultural restriction in different countries, These nations were mentioned as nations to have favor. You can just study that yourself. So we'll go through all of that and you find out. Edom just mentioned them. Edom, Moab Amnon, you know, because they had relationship with Abraham's children, Isaac and all of that, Jacob and the same in the same breath. They were told not to fight them.

Verse 4. Tell me 2. Verse 4. You have to pass through the course of your brethren, the children of Esau which are dwell, and say, thou shalt be afraid. They have been free. You shall take good truth to yourself. That means don't fight them till verse 6. Don't fight them then. Verse 9, verse 19. So the issue therefore in Deuteronomy 23, verse 3 had to do with treachery. Why were they told to exclude them? Because they met you not with bread and with water in the way when you came forth out of Egypt. And they hired against you Balaam, the son of Bertha of Mercy, opportunity to curse thee again. It is religious. Can you see it? Can you see it now? It is religious. Remember, Balaam was mentioned.

Balaam was hired to cause them to sin, to cause them to worship idols and all of that. So the reason why verse 3 of Deuteronomy 23 says to forbid the Amen in your congregation was because of the history of them trying to influence you to worship another God. Yet they are told not to fight them because they are cousins. And don't forget, as we read further, Ruth, a Moabite was found in Israel eventually. So those instructions had to do with worship, okay? And idol practices. Now, when it comes to intermarriage and relationship, the issue was one that will cause you to worship another God. That is in the background of all the prohibitions that we are going to see today. We do it. When you discover that a nation is bringing the people to come anti people terrorism, you stop them.

Look at what United nations did. They said the profile of Nigerians wasn't perfect. That they discovered that some nations will come to Nigeria. And then because our ways of acquiring passports were very leak were very open. You acquire a passport, then go with the green card access again to Nigerians become immigrants and they become citizens of America and become terrorists. Okay, let's stop it from so imagine having to do that in Moses days cannot be called discrimination. Nation is absolutely justice. And Right to say, look, these people will cause us to sin. They've done it before and their children are still there. And they are still the same way. We are going to forbid them in our assembly congregation.

Now we're also going to find out in our study, a man by the name of John Goldingay, another historian, said this being a non Israelite in origin is not a disqualification for being membership of this community in any time. The question usually is, which God do you serve? If you are a Gentile and you serve God, you are accepted. If you are a Jew and you serve idols, you are exempted. So it is not a case of discrimination. It is the worship of God. Why are they told not to marry Canaanites? So that they will serve other gods. 7, 3, 4. But where a Canaanite has made a commitment to serve Yahweh, he's accepted into the fellowship.

So again, we have to reiterate that In Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 4 to 6, Israel is told in clear terms, you are not giving this role because you are upright. You are only giving this role because God chose you. Now that reminds us of our duties today as preachers of the Gospel. Paul says that, you know, God counted you faithful and he gave you the ministry first. Timothy 1, 12 and 13. So again, gives you that. That's a cryptic. Understand that. Look, it's not because you have done anything except extremely special. It's just that God chose you to carry out this task at the end of it and critically so. Israel itself became wondrous eventually.

In Psalm 24:1, David says, the earth is a lot and the so at the end of the day you see that both, if you are Jew or Gentile, whatever was being spoken of still belonged to God. So the great issues and the questions for us will be, was Israel special? No. Israel was just a vehicle through which God will make known his promise in all the earth. Did Israel succeed? That's the next critical question we are going to answer. I know you know. The answer is no. Having known that Israel did not succeed, then it will be absolutely unbalanced to therefore judge. The God didn't succeed at his worship has been responsible for all that they were doing. That's important to note.

So can we therefore say that God in dealing with Israel is not particular about a nation, but worship only that I will use this nation as the example where they fail. Anyone who worships me will be seen as part of this nation. Paul will now say, it's not all that are Israel. A typical understanding Of Paul's submission, Can we also say that Israel eventually was judged just like Egypt? Right, Just like Canaanite. They were equally judged the same way as a nation. Those who disobeyed were equally judged the same way. So therefore, was there ethnic discrimination with God? Absolutely no. It's vital to also note that the issue is sin and not ethnicity. See a few texts. Jeremy 13, verse 15. Oh, we've been here before. Yeah, 1315, where they were told to, you know, utterly destroy everything that breathed.

I think we've been through that. Have we? All right, so the question should now be, alright, if God did all of that and up till when Jesus came and when Paul showed up, the same things they did in Egypt in the Exodus were still foundation of Israel. So the question is, did God fail? No. Rather is to look at God walking through the failures and inefficiencies of the vessels that he used. Which means that now this is a very tricky area and I wanted you to be very alert of what I'm about to say. This brings to mind why some will sit back, say this is the sovereignty of God, which is a thin line.

By the time you see the intent of what they are saying, that well, God can use evil to do good, they are right, but God will do the evil for the good is what doesn't make sense. That will make him responsible for seen. Are you following what I'm saying? So therefore the graciousness, grace of God is the will be seen in how he has dealt so far with these men, where he doesn't deal with them in their perfections. Rather he uses their perfection for an ultimate goal. Therefore comes the issue. You might not see his methods as efficient, but they will be sufficient. Efficient means at the right time, through the right person, in the right place, but sufficient means it will get to its destination. So we will be faced with seeing a perfect God walking through an imperfect mistake.

So we can therefore say this is a very tricky thing, that therefore his actions vis a vis man's actions will equally be imperfect. Because we have seen God having to walk through man look at something very critical. He says to man, the seed of the man will bring rules the head of the serpent. And with a one one conversation, he begins to presume we don't hear anything about Adam. Again, he begins to presume she has two children. What she named Cain already shows you her presumption. Abel dies and then she's shocked that okay, then she has another child, makes a presumption till Adam says, well, everything is Mortal. I'm, in other words, telling you that all of God's vessels will follow the same pattern. They will be sufficient for what he will do, but not efficient. Efficient.

When he says somebody is efficient, oh, he does. Or she does it at the right time, in the right place. What we have seen is we see a God who walks through ridiculously inefficient processes, messy human choices and failures, yet arrives at his destination. In Genesis chapter 50 and 20, we see oftentimes it is at the end point that the man will look back and say, what a wise God. He's not saying he did it. He says he did this. He didn't do this. Watch my hand. You look back and look at the history and say, what a wise God. The fatalistic theology will say he did this. No, Bible theology says he did this. This the end point, even though he had to walk through this, which you find human frailties, indiscretions. Genesis 50, 20.

But as for you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good. He says to bring, to pass as to this day, to save more people alive. Who will have thought? A man has a dream. People hated him, something God wasn't part of. They sold him to slavery. One of them said, don't kill him. He got to slavery, went through different motions, his own forwardness, indiscretions. But it took the very end to look back and say, wow, now pay attention and see the wonders and wisdom of the cross. And Peter will say, through the predetermined counsel of God and for knowledge of God, they crucified Christ. Not what God did, but what God saw and passed through himself. God walked through sin. So look at God using sin eventually for his glory. How can you deal with it?

You can't deal with redemption without talking about sins. And let's pick them out. The betrayal of Judas, the denial of Peter, the hatred of the Pharisees and Sadducees, the wickedness, the injustice summed up. And that was how God was glorified. That's how life came to us in death. So therefore, the process and the motions will all look imperfect till we get to the end. And so it might not have been efficient, but sufficient at the end. We got to where we're going. God is glorified, man is saved. Who will have thought, Hadith will work out something someday. A place where they called it Sheol. Sheol in the Hebrew means underworld, where voices are not heard in the earth. But somebody got there and spoke. And he says, you will not leave your only one to suffer corruption.