But notice that it says, whosoever shall kill shall be in the danger of the judgment. Now he says, but I say unto you, whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause. I told you, the word cause is not in the original language. So before you say, I have a cause shall be in the danger of judgment. So two things are embedded. Go to that. Exodus 20:13. Notice that the word danger of judgment is not there. Then you have Deuteronomy 5. And 17. So that means that he's dealing with the written word and its interpretation. So when he now said, now I say to you, is not in any way going to rewrite what was said, rather is handling the interpretation. So embedded in that again is how the law was given.

And we're going to see that majorly today, the Monday how the law was given. So now. So we have an interpretation that appears progressive in nature. That is you have heard been said. Now I say that means there's a progressive nature of that interpretation of what was said. Thou shalt not kill. And that goes into swearing, holds the divorce, hating. Okay, we said that already. Divorce, loving others, hating your enemy and all of that. It uses the same technique. Now I don't want to major on that now I just want to wanted to show you something that basically he is earning. Now, a lot of people were involved already in how the scriptures were interpreted. One of them would be the Psalms, which I told you are political folks. They are political guys. They had the priests as well. You had the rabbis.

The rabbis were like the way you say rabbi in the, in. In the Jewish world, it's like saying reference, like reverence simply means somebody will revive because of his office and what he does. So rabbi is also that format, like somebody that we revive who can teach, someone who can handle Scriptures. Though really the only respect they give you in Israel is how you can handle the Scriptures. So it's not just teacher. So when it says thou art a teacher, come from God. John 3:1 is not true. Param me. It's not just that. Oh, he. Because he saw him teach. No, it's because he saw him handle or have a maybe, should I say administer the Old Testament, both in teaching and practice. That's the essence of calling him a rabbi. So there are people who handle it like that.

Of course, the false prophet. So Jesus did not say here that, oh, they were wrong. No, he said, now I say, in other words, there was, as it were, a progressive interpretation of the Scriptures. And we're going to see why. Then the second method you will see him use will be. I should have said that first. It should be the way he taught the Scriptures in the light, a new world. In other words, we are going to find that he makes announcement which is what we now call the good news. An announcement. There's announcement here. Blessed are the poor in spirit, which is the word machairos, often used either to welcome a visitor or to make announcement blessed. So it makes announcement with the Scriptures. The first thing we saw is an interpretation, then announcement with the Scriptures.

Then the third, which I mentioned yesterday, is the Kwa Va omah. That is the way you use analogy. So the way the Old Testament was equally said and written was there was analogical principle where you are able to use something you know to point your attention to something you ought to have known. Let's look at that. That is okay. Based on. Let me say, well, based on this premise, then this should happen. So is that means the first thing is not what is driving your attention to it must be the second. So two things are brought in comparison. Based on this, we should have this. Now let's see an example, Exodus 6 and 12, I.e. Q A L, W A H O, M, E, R. If X can happen, then why not Y? Something like that.

If you can see X happen, why not Y? Look at Exodus 6 and 12. Behold, children of Israel have not hearkened unto me. How then shall Pharaoh hear me so? Which means that it identifies disobedience. He says, if these ones have not heard me, how then would this hear me? So he uses the premise of one to establish the other. But what he's really talking about is Pharaoh or Pharaoh. Numbers 12. There are a whole lot. I'll just go through a bit and mention just numbers 12, 13 and 14. Heal her now. Oh God, I beseech you. If her father had was spit in her face, should she not be ashamed? Seven days. Let her be shot out from the camp. Seven days. And after that let her be received again. Now this was when the Miriam Aaron when they dishonored Moses.

And he said, look, heal her. Say, well, if her father was put in her face, we should not have been somewhere. That is, normally, if her father had done something to her, will she not be healed for seven days? Let her. You know. So a premise for the other way instruction, commandment or instance is laid. Zoe 31:27, 31:27. I know thy rebellion and thy stiff neck. Behold, while I am yet alive with you this day you have been rebellious against the Lord. How much more after my death? How much more that is he uses now to tell them why he gave them the instructions for them. I'll give you others. 1St Samuel 14:29-30 I suppose that I will touch the ones I did because I need us. There's some that are very different and I may just have to get to it.

But not today. 1St Samuel 21:466 1 Samuel 23 verse 3. I'll take it again. 1 Samuel 14, verse 29 to 30 1st Samuel 21 verse 4 to 6, 1st Samuel 23 verse 3, 2nd Samuel chapter 4, verse 9 to 12 2nd Samuel 16:10 12, 2nd Samuel 18, verse 11 to 12 1st Kings 8, 27 1st Kings 13, verse 7 to 8, 2nd Kings 5:12. I tend to get to that. Then look at Jonah 14, that means there's a premise lead. Jonah. King. 4, 10. Now then said the Lord, thou hast pity on the God. You know, there was a story about the God and tree and all that on the guard.

And he says, for that which has not labored, neither made it grow, which came up in the night and perished in a night, and should not I spare Nineveh, the great city where are more than six score thousand persons who cannot descend between their right hand and their left are not so much cattle. So he says that if this can happen to this, why can't I do that? So you see that means there was comparison. And therefore sometimes in the reading of the Old Testament you shouldn't think that they are two separate things, even though they are. Just distinguish them and say, well, the end point is that he's explaining mercy, repentance, forgiveness of sins using a story. So there's a background and then there's a lesson, you know, that is built upon it. Now in the four Gospels you now discover that.

So it's not a system that was developed by anybody. It's embedded in scripture itself. All Bible teachers have just found out, okay, this is how it's read. So that means it's an inbuilt Bible interpretation technique already that's there. That is the way you ought to have read it. Matthew 6:26. Behold, that is, look at it, the fowls of the air for the so not. That's easy for everybody to understand. You don't have to go to university to understand that one. Neither do they reap your guarantee bands. Yet your heavenly Father, are you not much better than they. Look at the val there. He uses birds. I mean, you know, nobody in this world except you are from some places where they're extreme in idol worship. We think that birds are better than you. So it's okay. Look at those birds.

Now if you can look at those birds. How much more you. So it does. A comparison analogy. I've seen somebody say this, that the day that you see the day that you hear that I am sick, let no animal be well, what an interpretation. Okay, okay, we have another corporation there. Luke 12:24 Then Matthew 6:30 if God so closed the grass of the field, and today is tomorrow is cast in the oven, shall he not much more closely. Matthew 10:24. Disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his Lord. It's not enough for his servant that he be as his master, and the servant as his Lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more see that? So one will lead to the other. He's letting you see what's going to happen to you.

Matthew 12:3 6 Were there yesterday and I was going to come back there today. Have you not read David who was hungry Then let's see Verse six I say to you that one that is okay. Now he used an example David the priests out of the earth that says that he that is in this place one greater than the temple. But if you had known what I mean by have mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. So he uses analogy that if David can do this, and if the priest was going to do that, we're allowed to do that. How much more he that is greater than the temple is here. So he uses that analogy for us. Matthew 12:10 12 Again, if you have a sheep falls into a pit, won't you rescue it?

How much more then is a man not better than sheep? That's very basic. Wherefore it's lawful to do well on sabbath days. Matthew 12: again 41 to 42 it says, if the people of Nineveh repented at preaching of Jonas, and greater than Jonas is here, then he says to you that in 42 and that's the queen of Sheba, Then he says that they will rise against you in judgment, that if this can repent, how much more you if the Queen of Sheba can come to hear wisdom and we are using two Gentile nations. If a Gentile who did not and you look at Paul used a lot of that as well. If the Gentile who didn't have the fathers, who did not have, as it were, the covenants, how much more you know.

So that again looks at two different instances, but it brings them together. Then let's skip that quickly. Acts 1 is one of the very few technical ones, but let me just go through it before I deal with the issue or Acts 1:16 now what Peter has done here was the main speaker was to look at what the psalmist had said. Acts 1:16 just read through to 20. He matches two scriptures Acts that's Psalm 41, verse 9, then Psalm 69:25 majorly and Psalm 109, verse 8, which was referring to, you know, one. Verse 20, for example, let the application be just let no man dwell there in his Bible another man take and he's referring to two different instances. Then he says if this can happen to this person, then he says that how much more in Judas?

And they were laying foundation for why they should replace Judas and they used analogy. If the bishopric of this man is taken, how much more Judas who was with us, who saw the Lord Jesus Christ. So it's not like those scriptures were pointing to Judas, rather they use analogy on why they will replace him. Do you understand that? That this is the analogy that we're going to have to replace him. The same said. Let's see, let's see very briefly. It is written in the book of psalms, that's verse 20 let his habitation be desolate and let no man dwell in and it's subject to another thing. So you have two different things matched together. And it says that if in that instance this is what the psalmist said.

He said, then we have grounds to replace this man and let us therefore find somebody who can substitute him. Then you have Romans 2. I've skipped a number. Let me just read them out for you. Luke 11:11, you should know that one. If you, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more should the Heavenly Father. So he says, this is what people do to their kids. How much of the heavenly father? Luke 11:11, Luke 12:6, Luke 13:15, Luke 16:10-12 Then John 3:12 where he's talking to Nicodemus. I'm told it's Nicodemus. John 3:12 I've told you at least believe not. How shall you believe if I tell you heavenly things? That's a vow, Kwaoma. That is, if you don't understand this one, then you can't understand that one.