So those things were done, okay? In view of what God will do, that is a dietary laws, social laws, I'VE mentioned when it comes to the justice laws, you know, you have to understand that in the justice laws, the criminal laws, there were existing criminal laws and the way they saw justice. Do you know today, if you still teach New Testament folks how to discipline people, they'll still not be satisfied. No. Now no, I mean that's not discipline. In their mind they are wired in a particular way. So to even explain to them that what you are trying to say. No, that's not it. A man was angry in one service like that. I took one hour plus to explain Hebrews 12, 28 and 29. I got a consuming fire. The man was a leader in the community of the Christian association.

He sat down, you could see he was eyeing me. So I felt this man should suffer a bit. And I was explaining. So he said I have a question. So where is the power of God? You know now? No, no, it's not funny. You could let me ask you. You care, don't you want once a while wonder is this not a powerless God eventually so I can't send him to do something for me? If you lied. I don't think like that. Then you are hypocrite. Just say. Someone say so our prayer now. Our prayer. Her prayer. I know it's warfare. You know it's warfare. If we say we are going to break the strongholds of the devil, lie. If somewhere you don't think in your mind that somebody who is opposing the gospel just die, you clear the way for us. See you.

But whereas the strongholds are in the minds of men. It's a long journey, but we'll get there. Because we also are wired to see power in a different life. What we grew up to see was power twisted. The cross is the power of God. So if you are Moses, you will use their diet. He used their diet, he used their clothing to teach them two things. Love. God, walk in love. Two things. Upon this angered the entire law and the prophets. Paul says, if you walk in the spirit, you are not under any law. You walk in the spirit. And he mentioned the flesh. He mentioned adulteries, he mentioned fornications, he mentioned hatred, avarice, strife, he said and such like. But the fruit of the spirit is the love of God.

So if you walk in the love of God, you are not walking in this fruit. Following what I'm saying here. So that is what we are reading. Using dietary principles, using animals, using clothing, using buildings to explain in our interactions this is how we walk in love. I am reminding you not to hate people. Don't eat carnivorous animals. I'm reminding you know, not to hurt those who are vulnerable. Don't hit animals that are feeble. Is that very clear? Oh, when blood comes out of your body, don't go to church. Why? Because life and death are separated. That's what he's saying. So I don't go to the temple. Pardon me. The temple is not where God is. So they were all figurative. But till today there are churches that the world government, churches that women do attend services when they are dementia, period.

How will you know? I don't know. How will you do so? We must learn to read the Old Testament. Hope is getting clear. The context is critical. You are using food to teach a rebellious station, using clothing to teach a rebellious patient. And you know that their clothes has nothing to do with their conduct. But their clothing can explain. You can use their clothing to explain how they ought to conduct themselves. The context of the Old Testament must always be understood. You have a rebellious nation as the audience of the writings, a nation that is being reminded of Genesis 1 and 2. You have a nation that is in Genesis 1 and 2 is still going to happen. It couldn't happen through Adam. It couldn't happen up to Moses, but it is going to happen. It's going to happen as a nation.

It's going to happen as a kingdom, it's going to happen as a congregation. It will happen in. In exile. While this age is running, a new one will come. That age is called eternal life. So eternal life is not what happens when a man dies and equally not have eternal life. In my spirit and all that eternal life actually is God starting his own world in this world. Is that clear? That's why it is called when it's called eternal life. The proper Greek is the life of the age to come, the age that was promised. This is the life. I'll see you in 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/