Luke 24:25. Then he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophet has spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin at Moses and all the prophets, despite them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself, Acts 28 and verse 23. And when he had appointed it a day, there came many to him in his lodging, to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses and of the prophets, from morning till evening. So again I want to remind you of that distinction, Moses and the prophets, because no doubt, even Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, that looks like the abstract. They are not abstract, they are interpretations of the law. So the prophets judged, spoke, preached, according to the Torah.

We have said that the Torah is Genesis. And I mentioned something that I shouldn't lose out. But the issue of Genesis is Abraham and not Abraham, but the promise made to Abraham. That's why I did the distinction for you. The epangelia datheke diatomi, showing you that it's what God promised and he granted. Nehmar, chapter eight, Verse 7, the B part caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. So that's your job. The job is to teach the law accurately, to teach it properly. And we said you must cross the language barrier, the context barrier, the essence of it, which is to believe God.

I will say two things, Genesis 3 disobedience, and Genesis 4 wickedness towards your fellow brother. So, and upon these two hangs the law and the prophets. So that means that we again, we need to be careful in how we read the law and the Old Testament and all of that. Now I want to also reiterate what I said earlier, that the first thing you need to say about the laws of Moses, of course, now the law of Moses, I think by now you should understand how to unpack it. Unpack the laws governing the nation, the laws governing their worship, the laws governing their interactions, commercial interactions, and then the law of Genesis, which is the reason for the law. So that means because of the law of Genesis, Moses was trying to find his way around the existing laws of the land.

You know very well that it was nearly impossible for him to just stick to the worship of God even in their entire interactions, because that would be very. It's an impossible mission even today with the light that we have in the Gospel. You can't say that. Everybody just read their Bibles, walk in the New Testament. They know how to. They'll know whether to cross the road. They'll know. You know that yes, can happen. If God walk in the spirit, we all walk in love. But you see, the truth is that we have to be honest. And I like to say that God is a realist. He deals with issues in a very honest way. And you discover that the first thing you realize is that you are dealing with carnal men. You are dealing with canal men. Paul will say, sold under sin.

You are dealing with men who disobeyed God, who didn't take God's word. Deuteronomy 32:20 says they were four generations children in whom there is no faithfulness. So he makes a distinction between those people and Abraham in Genesis 15:6. So I purposely left you with the Fenia story so that you can brood over it. That what Femians did in their world with what was available today is not. We can't say, brother, how would you do that? But it is accounted to him. It is. Of course, there's no believing there. So the concept of faith is not there. But the issue of righteousness by faith. Listen to what I'm about to say is a narrow prison. Righteousness, there's righteousness in the conduct. Okay?

Of course, looking at the Genesis chronology, a man believes that in his conduct we see the tzedakah, the judgment and justice of God. But we can also look at Acts in the book of, in the Old Testament and say, this is right. This puts things in the right. So it's therefore left for us in the way we will properly and carefully. Like I said, even this one I've said. I'm just wondering whether I shouldn't elaborate further because so even just it means that he's saying that you can go and stop people where the Old Testament was, right? I didn't say that. But I said that in their world. And looking at what he did, it was accounted to him that what he did was put in the account as right.

Now I want us to look at that word accounted in the Hebrew is the word shishab. It means to put into recognition or to record for. And you see, it is used in those two texts. Psalm106, Verse 31, Genesis 15:6. Look at Romans is the word logizomai. Romans 4, verse 3. Counted. It's a word Paul used a good number of times counted unto him for righteousness, faith verse 6, impute righteousness without works. Verse 8 will not impute sin. Verse 10. How is it reckoned? Romans 4. Now, Romans 4, 25, 23. Now, it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him. But for us it shall be imputed if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord. So that word imputed is the character of the writing.

That is, it is a word, we can put it, like, say, generated by Moses, that you see what he has done now he's talking to Israel, and he's talking to them about faith and love. So Abraham believed God. You see, what he has done is in his account as sedeka, he will command his children after me. All right, he gave Isaac sedeka. So in other words, he's saying to you that the concept of righteousness, another word like that, faith. All right, Love, hope, righteousness. This is right. This is man in his rightful position. Whereas Paul plays with another word in Romans 5:13. It is not imputed. He doesn't use logizomai. He uses elogumai. A word you will see in Philemon or Philemon, in our own words is Philemon.

Some have told Ms. Philemon 18, if he has wronged thee or holds you anything, Philemon18, put it on my account, charge it to my account, which is Romans 5:13, written against you. But in the word logizomai, it is written for you. All right, so Moses, therefore, has been able to employ the system of contrast, comparison and an accounting system whereby you record for someone. Now, this is going to stand for this thing that he believed. All right, then he is called right. But then based on that, again, his conduct of commanding his children after him is also called right, justice and judgment. So therefore, the subject of righteousness, yes, Is by faith in Christ. It comes to us by faith in Christ. By faith in Christ we have what is right is done. Yet it must be.

The narrative must be well explored into why, again, in the writings of the Epistles, it is used for what we do with that gift of righteousness. It is also called righteousness, our giving, and then our living in the world. So I will leave out some of the controversial issues because I want us to take it. Bullseye. We'll look at another area where you could find, as it were, one place. I think we'll probably need another book soon, maybe next year. Added to the woman of God. I'm not sure were able to unearth this very well. I'm not sure. I'll check it if it's not there, then it means we have to add this now. It therefore suffices to say that when you look at the issue of women, The way I like to view it is I start from my world, okay?

That is today's world, which is thousands of years since the ancient Near East. And I look at the woman in my world and I'm thinking, we are still celebrating first woman president. We say, well, the first lady pilots. Those are still in our language today. We even use phrases like Mrs. You get it? Or somebody is a doctor. We can't say doctor type doctor misses or we borrow words like who? You professor Mrs. Even in church you find pastor Mrs. I think the first person who knocked my head was Pastor Chris one day he said, there's nothing like that the gift of God is gender, is not gender sensitive. It's just anybody that has it. I said, wow, that's true. I didn't think like that. I just felt Apostle Mrs. Was evil, respectful, but was robbing.

We had a friend then, she wasn't married to my friend, but because we called her Reverend Mrs. Did eventually get married. So our Reverend Mrs. Went to the bottomless pit. So even in our world today, and you cannot remove the influence, of course you now have Europe and America. That I was saying to someone the other day, somebody in green American politics, I said, what if Michelle Obama should buy for presidency? He said, America is yet to grapple with a black man in the White House. He said, they went through hell for eight years. You are now saying a woman, and a black one for that matter.

You know, look at in this world with all the Enlightenment, is it biology that we have not studied, that there's nothing in it, in skin color, is it dermatology, is that skin that we have not studied? Is it psychology that we know that there's no psychology that is genetic, that is gender, is it philosophy? We even go to school and you will see a girl first and then we are feeling her. You get home and then you tell your mom who was forced. They say, her name is Siti. Eh, Is even a woman that will tell you, eh, you know, what could I have done, you know? But in our world today, in our world, the British, maybe the British monarchy has been able to escape that they have a queen, you know, and they used to have a prime minister.

And because the woman was very strict, they called her Tata. Probably don't know what I'm talking about. In those days when they call you Tata, it means you are wicked. And You're a witch. So you know that is in our world today. So based on that, I'm thinking here is Jesus who explore all this. I believe I would still, he has to pick disciples. Is he going to battle many things? He can't even pick a Gentile. Even though he came to save them. He now says he should pick a woman and say Apostolos. He can't even pick a Gentile, somebody that goes to eat with a Jew who is considered a sinner. A Jew say this man is in the house of a sinner or he sits with a Jew. You now went to pick who in their world.

So you can see that Paul's letters were daring where he confronted it. Of course it's not Paul as a person, it's the Gospel that confronted it. He confronted it. So we are left with the thinking, is it that now? So we have a problem to solve. Is it that Paul took a radical departure from the law of Moses or he properly interpreted it? Of course we know the second one is the answer. But we must find out how because a lot of questions are going to be thrown at you. Let me ask, let me say something to you. As a Bible teacher, as a pastor, whatever name you call yourself, you are always answering questions. You are always answering. So you must have the questions before they ask you.

Now if you look at Jesus, okay, I remember I said this somewhere and somebody said, where is it in the Bible? I mean something his head just packed. I said, women are the first apostles. Somebody that was sleeping before he just wake up. He was not listening to the teaching. But that got his attention how he said they were sent to the apostles to tell them he rose from the dead. Is that apostleship? Is that apostleship? That's not apostleship, you know. Then imagine the age long issue of Romans 16:7 over junior Adonicus. And some people did their best to explain to me. I have personally the number of materials I have read on the language. Junior is over 50. Just to see and you will see dishonesty in the interpretation. I now went ahead to take non biblical materials.

Okay, let's assume at least the name is not a Bible name. So let's go pick it. The control of the words, it was so obvious, you know, the issue of Phoebe. Some people say, no, Phoebe was just a servant of the church, that she wasn't a teacher. She wasn't she. All she did was to deliver the letter to Rome. You know, I now show them the chapter before Jesus is also called the Sabbath. So what he did was to deliver what. So you know, and then you go to the. The prevalent problems in First Corinthians 14:33, you know, and then. Which is contentious because there are a good number of people that believe that it was interpolated, that this thing wasn't original. Let them go to the I said the law. There's no law. So is he interpolated?