Come. Are you there now? If today you. If you are sent to go and possess Canaan, you are going to go there. You might even act like you wear their clothes. You might act like you are going to their shrine and start to infiltrate them by preaching. But that's because you have a different civilization. That's why you can relate like me. If I say now you are going to. Even your needs to. Let's say you are going to one village where they. You know, the first. I remember one of my friends told me that they went to a place where they didn't wear clothes. You know, naturally you have felt your own world will be like what they felt. If you wear clothes, you are from an enemy deity. So I now said, so how did you do it?

Do you want me to give you details? They actually practically went without clothes and how to use leaves. And all of this is somebody who has a PhD. So that is true. Now imagine that is because that's what they will accept. Now if you are going to possess in their. In the days of Moses, the way they took territories was by war and even up to recent history. But today, if you hear, go and take over that place. If your pastor sends you and says, go and take over that place, I'm not sure you are going to go and buy guns. You are going to pray. You are going to, you know, look at how do you reach out to people?

I remember Uncle Adami told us how the Lord sent him to a school and he had to take the master's degree form to go and be a student. Do you understand? So now imagine what he has done in their own world. War and conquest will therefore be justified among human beings in. In how you possess land. I've not yet said they are endorsed by God. We'll get to that at the tail end of this series. But let us first of all understand the language. Why it will say it is wrought in righteousness. Righteousness is not falsely a spiritual word. It is a legal term. It was done legally. Is that clear? Not righteousness of God in Christ Jesus. In that context alone, it was done legally. It was done rightly. So that explained it means that they were meant to destroy idols.

How many of you know that is still the Great Commission today? That is the Great Commission today. To destroy idols, to stop men from worshipping idols and self and science and all of that to the worship of God. So it now gets us to one critical part of the wars. The Amalekites. I know you know them. The amalekites. Now, in 1 Samuel 15. In 1 Samuel 15, we often quote verse 22. God help you to quote the context. 1 Samuel 15:22. To obey is better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of rams be. Do you know what he was supposed to obey? Let's see what he was meant to obey. Verse 3. Go and smite Amalek and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not but slay both man and woman, infant suckling ox, sheep, camel and ass.

That is what he was meant to obey. But somehow he spared Agag. He went in there. But in verse eight, he took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword. And Saul and the people of Agag and the best of the sheep and of the oxen, of the fattenings and of the lambs, and all that was good and would not utterly destroy them. But everything that was violent and refused, that he destroyed utterly. So in other words, that was the offense. Now we need to understand who the Amalekites were. And like I said, we look at it in their world and in today's world, the first thing you will discover that the Amalekites were sworn enemies of Israel. Look at Exodus 17. As they were moving from Egypt.

Exodus 17 was their first encounter, verse 8. Then came Amalek, verse 8, and fought with Israel in Rephidim. So we see that they have a history of being sworn enemies of Israel. Now look at a couple of things. Israel didn't have trained soldiers. In fact, of all the soldiers in the world, history has it that they had arguably the most amateur and the most the weakest. And don't forget that these are nomadic people. They are moving and then you come to attack them in their journey. So they have been sworn enemies of Israel. Now view Amalek or Amalekites as Isis. Or in the words of Barack Obama, Asa, I think he likes them. Or Iswap or the forgotten Al Qaeda, or let's come home Boko Haram. View it that way. That these are.

This is what you can relate with or relate them with today. So they had an unyielding, unchanging delight and pursued to destroy Israel. Look at judges 3:13. And gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel and possessed the city of palm trees. Judges 6:3 5. I want you to take note of all these texts. Judges 3, verse 3 to 563 5. It was when Israel was shown that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, Jew of East, even they came up against them. They encamped against them and destroyed the increase of the earth. Till thou comes unto Gaza and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep nor ox nor ass. Can you see? It's a consistent thing. Judges 6:33.

Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites, children of Israel, children of east were gathered together and went over and pitched in the valley of Jezreel. Judges 7:12. And Midianite and Amalekites and all children of the east lay along in the valley like grasshoppers in multitudes. And their camels were without number as the sand by the sea. So you see, they are always attacking them on the way they are. They are like today's. What do you call. It's not militant, they call them, huh. Bandits. Not know. What do you call Buko Haram again? Terrorists. That's the way they were. Judges 10:12. There are so many texts, you see them 10:12. So you have unprovoked attack against Israel. The Zidonites and the Amalekites and Ammonites did oppress you and you cried to me and I delivered you out of their hand.

So that is the history they have with Israel. When you say, for example, if President Buhari of Nigeria says, he says to the chief of army staff, General Buratai, go to Zambiza forest and clear the place. And then he does, he leaves a few people alive and you hear about it. What man, what would you say? These people have infiltrated our army. That is in your own world today. I don't know anybody who is very Christian hate his country's army. Not at all. I don't know anybody who understands the gospel of the grace of God so well and goes to talk to the army. Lay down your arms. Our kingdom is not of this world. So what I'm trying to say is look at those things, their world, they were simply military conquest. But again, we are faced with the issue of language.

Utterly destroy them. Take them out. We said, this is rhetoric. Because in 1st Samuel 27. Now I skipped something. In First Samuel we just read First Samuel 10, number 15. The first number 15. Eventually Samuel did what Saul did not do. So you can read that to yourself, but in 1 Samuel 27. So you have the idea that, oh, the Amalekites were clerg. Every one of them, you know, women, children, you know, they all died. 1 Samuel 27, 8, David and his men went up and invaded the Geshurites and the Jeshrites and the Amalekites. For those nations were as of old inhabitants of the land as thou goest to shore, even the land of Egypt. So that means that utterly destroyed, that eventually Samuel was meant to have done is another war rhetoric.

They didn't all die in 1 Samuel 30 and verse 1, he says that the Amalekites had invaded the south and ziglag and smitten ziglag and borne it with fire. They're just known bandits and terrorists. In 1 Samuel 30, again, verse 18 and 17, David recovered all the Amalekites had carried away. And David rescued his two wives. That's David for you. Even after David, about 250 years later in First Chronicles chapter four. 250 Years about that. First Chronicles chapter four and verse 43, First Chronicles 4 and 43. And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped and dwelt there to this day. So that means that language of utterly destroyed is another war rhetoric. In fact, when you now read the story of Esther. No, Esther is quite a later event where they were in exile under the Persian king of the Axios.

You now have a man look at Esther. Esther3.1. Esther, chapter three and one. And these things. Did King Ahasuerus promote Amon, the son of Amidita, the Agagite, that means he's the son of Agag. And advanced him and set his seat above all the princes that were with him. So you still had someone who was from that same lineage from King Agag. Look at chapter three, verse ten. And the king took his ring from his hand and gave it unto Ammon. Follow this, the son of Amadatha, the Agagite, the Jews, what enemy. So that's what they were. Look at verse 13.

And the letters were sent by post to Kingsborough to destroy, to kill and to cause, to perish all Jews, both young, old, little children, women, in one day, even upon the 13th day of the 12 months, which is the month Adam, to take the spoil of them for a prayer. So you can see they are. They are sworn enemies of the Jews. So the issue with Amalekites was more of the Jews being on the defensive preservative. And two things we are going to look at again. We said that the utterly destroyed is war rhetoric, right? Okay, good. Secondly, it is like a war against terrorists, those who are consistently against your soul. Deuteronomy 25. Moses spoke about this verse 15 to 17. Thou shalt have a perfect and unjust weight, a perfect and just measure Thou shalt have.

And thy days may be lessened in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. For all that do such things, and all that unrighteous are vision unto God, like God revealed. Remember what the Amalekites did unto thee. By the way, when you were come out, that is their known enemies. So call them hardened against Israel. But obviously when you hear utterly destroyed. Let's now go to some basic technical details of war rhetoric in 1 Samuel 15. And sometimes you may need some. I guess maybe as we go on, we'll look at some archaeological materials that explain these things so that we don't just get carried away by what we can call surface reading. 1St Samuel 15:5. So when he was told to do that, what did he do? He came to a city of the Amalek and laid wait in the valley.

He came to the city and laid weight in the valley. What this appears is like a fortified military camp. You know, if you say for example, that Egypt destroyed, say Lebanon at war, Egypt, you are actually talking about their soldiers, their military men. So have that at the back of your mind. So basically that word destroy, I mentioned it earlier, is the word era. We'll explore it on Monday. Likely, which is used for to ban something, is used for resistance, is used for to bar another. And it is the most used language for Israel's war against other nations, particularly the Canaanites. Against canaanites is used 37 times. Erem H E R e m and a synonym of it is used about 10 times about the Amalekites. So therefore what it talks about more is not literally just a physical destruction of material things.

No, it's more of to bar something from happening now, knowing the culture of their day. The way out of that will be to resort towards. Just put that somewhere. The question now would be why the inclusion of women and children in 1st Samuel 15. We've crossed the Judges and Joshua angle and seen that. Well, that doesn't look like everybody was touched. But what about this clear instruction of women and children and everything that moves? Yet again we are dealing with language. The issue against the Amalekites had to do with their combatant citizens, their military, and not non combatant members of society. Look NAT Ethereum Chapter 20. And verse 10. When you come near to a sea to fight against it, watch this procedure for war. Pay attention please. He says proclaim peace unto it. So the first step of war was, look, bring peace.

Proclaim peace. And it shall be, if it makes thee answer of peace and open unto thee it shall be that all that is found there shall be tributed unto thee. And they shall serve thee peace. If they will make no peace thee, but will make war against thee, then thou shalt beseech it. And when the Lord thy God are delivered into thy hands, thou shalt smite every Male there, up with the edge of the sword. Pay attention. But the women, a little ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city, even all the sport thereof, thou shalt take unto yourself, and thou shalt eat of the spoil of thy enemy the Lord thy God has given thee. Thou shalt go unto all the cities which are far off from thee, which are not the cities of these nations.