David opposed God. Because Paul lets us know that what God does is that he provides a way of escape. First Corinthians 10:13 James 1 tells us, Let no man see when he is tempted. I am tempted of God. But God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempt ye any man. And what did James do? James takes us to Genesis. For every man is tempted. When he's drawn away of his own loss, he's enticed. He says, and when that loss is now, you know, fully grown, it brings forth sin, and sin brings forth death. That is, that can be saying that every time you. Every time you sin, there's death. That's not what he's saying. All already you know that James is reading from Genesis 2, 2:16 and Jeremy 10:30. Sorry. Now he says, do not err, my beloved brethren. Why would he say that?

Because he knows in their world they could have read it otherwise. So he said, do not err, my beloved brethren. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, down from the Father of light, which is Genesis again, with whom there is no variableness, neither shadows. That was where darkness and light was separated. Father of light. Then he says, of his own will. Begatios Genesis again, 26:28 with the word of with his own word that we might be the first fruit Genesis 1:11. Of his own creatures, the swift to hear, slow to wrath, slow to speak, for the wrath of man walketh the righteous of God. Be doers of the world and not hearers who lead apart of dirtiness receive the weakness, the engrafted word, the implanted word, able to save your soul.

Then he says in 23, be doers of the 1 not heirs only if any be a heir is like unto the man who beholds his genealogy, the word there in Genesis. That means he was talking about Genesis. So we have two men in Genesis. The one birthed by God, the image of God, and the one that came as a result of sin and death. Now, obviously there is the thing about Satan not being mentioned in the Old Testament. Yes, in the language, but people knew there was an accuser and a spiritual being, all right, who was being aided by their disobedience. The language did not spell it out, but the people were not ignorant. That is key. Notice that we are dealing with a language issue, not a knowledge issue. So second Samuel 24:1 is an idiomatic writing, an idiomatic expression. It's an idiom.

Look at the prayer of the kingdom. Luke 11, 4 Mark, Matthew 6, from verse 8, now 7 through to verse 14, deliver us from the evil one. Notice the statement before. You lead us not into temptation. Or like the Pope Benedict had just corrected you, do not make us fall into temptation. Rather you deliver us from the evil one. So it is clear that the temptation is from the evil one, and the deliverer is God. And Jesus is teaching from the Old Testament. Also in the four Gospels, the temptation of Jesus presents for us that Satan, if he is hid at all, is hid in the actions of men, not unknown. It's clear that Satan is not working in partnership with God in the four Gospels. Why is it now so clear in the four Gospels?

Because the language of the four Gospels is similar to what we speak today. So it is clearer there. Not because there was anything hidden before it. If it's hid at all, it's hidden. The use of words, not in the information. So the clarity we find in the epistles is not a clarity of insight, even though there's insights there. It's also a clarity of language which is closer to our world. So you. You need to do this because of our time, I can't explore all this. You need to go to listen again. It's in this Gospel on the temptation of Jesus. And Satan's being hidden is in the actions of men. Now, notice I said that when that man was in second Samuel 24, he now, because he.

I mean, he was quoting a lot of scriptures, he now quoted 1st Chronicles 21, the same story. It's believed that Ezra wrote first Chronicles. It therefore shows that if we are patient with the Bible, the idioms will be explained. So when he quoted this text and Satan stood up first Chronicles 21:1 against Israel and provoked David to number Israel, now we can say that it is the same information, however a shade different in language. Why was it so? Again, the audience would differ and the writer would differ. It is believed that 2nd Samuel was written 1120 before Christ BC whereas 1st Chronicles was written 450 BC or 500 BC years after. As you know very well, language develops, communication can change here and there. So Ezra is believed to have written this. So it's in this light we can call a progressive way.

It is written the same thing was written in another language. So what did God do in this scenario? Nothing. Why was he mentioned? Ibrahim allows permissive verbs. So these are critical things that need to be well explained. See, Bible teaching cannot be rushed. The teacher must be patient. I said to most of you, when you write, I said, look, don't write qualifying terms. Ensure that you don't use words verbosely or carelessly. Like I said, if you mention a term, what is the narrative? In that term, don't drop words like Christ is the explanation of all things. What does it mean? What is the narrative? If you drop that kind of word, definition can take you 500 pages. So you either avoid it when you say all things, do you know what all things refer to or refers to?

So you are therefore compelled to do the extra work. Now. Another major you know we said that Christology is also a breach. Another major fact is in the death of Jesus. We have crossed this bridge before, so we don't need to go by it again. But in the death of Jesus, if there was anything that was not clear to you before in your own world, the death of Jesus made it clear. But it's interesting that there are texts you will read that may even attempt to confuse you. Look at Acts 2:22 to 23. Acts 2:22, 23 I'll give you I'm not yet done with reform, though I'm on the reform case. Throughout this month or year, I'm on their case. Acts 2:23 Ye men of Israel. Okay, now before that, look at Isaiah 53. I read Isaiah 53. You see something that looks contradictory?

Let me go somewhere for you quickly. Verse 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him to grief when he should have made his soul an offering for sin. He shall see his seed he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. Is that not contradictory? He put him to grief, prospered him. He shall cease travel of his soul shall transfer by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many he shall bear their iniquities. I will divide him a portion with the great he shall divide the soul, the spoil with the strong, because he had poured out his soul unto death. He was numbered with the transgressors. He bore the sin of many and made intercession for their transgression. That's contradiction. He bruised him. He ate his number among the transgressors. Now go back.

You think this is God's doing? But let's carefully read verse one. Who had believed. Let's take it together. Who had believed our reports. Let's go together. Verse 1. And to whom is the harm of the Lord revealed? Verse 2. For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. And he had no form of comeliness that when we see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him. Look at three. He despise and rejected of men. A man of sorrows acquitted. We eat as it were our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not. So it pleased the Lord to bruise him is idiomatic of allowing that to happen. So you can see if we can only be patient. There's no contradiction. It's idiomatic. He is God's servant.

He is the arm of the Lord. He is to save. He will bear the sins and the gutters of many. How it will be seen in how we reject him. We despise him. We made him a man of sorrows. Why does it please the Lord to bruise him? Because the Lord did nothing. You know that it is not really difficult if were able to calm down and read it contextually. Now imagine what my Calvinist brothers and friends now did using this ignorance to explain Acts 2. Acts 2. 23. I'll start from 22. You men of Israel, hear these words. Children of Nazareth.

The man approved of God among you by miracles and signs and wonders which God did by him in the midst of you, as yourselves also know him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God you have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. They now said God decreed it to happen by making it happen when he has said here that he delivered him up. Which means. And that word paradigm is often used for betrayal. What's a betrayal? They say, where is she? Go. And you do like this. And now is that nothing? If you couldn't do anything, you pointed us to him. You allowed it to happen so that the word used for betraying Jesus and the word used there are the same Greek words.

You know that you and I, in today's language, we will use the same words who will say Judas betrayed Jesus. The Father allowed them to take Jesus. There are two different things, but it's the same Greek word. Romans 8:32. He who spared not his own son. He didn't hold him, but delivered him up. How did it happen? He says, by your wicked hands I have slain him. So if Jesus is God, then he becomes the victim of man's sin. Redemption and the death of Christ shows us that he is the sacrifice. We are the beneficiaries. Romans 8:32. So what happened in Matthew 27:46, which is Psalm 22, verse 1? My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That's rhetoric. Let's put that together. Why have you left me? No. Why have you abandoned me to these people? And you are doing nothing.

So can we safely say that in the three days and three nights, the Father and the Son were together, But abandoned in the hands of sinful man? So it's a rhetoric. Why have you forsaken me? Look at John 19:11. There could no power at all be against me. That is what Jesus told Pilate, except it be giving thee from above. Now look at that word, giving thee. Does it mean that God said, oh, yeah, come violate. It means God did nothing. The Father did nothing. Jesus did nothing. So how did God bruise Jesus? By not bruising him, by not doing anything? So what we have in Scripture are expressions that require explanation. This is why we said the foundation of Bible study is faith. It takes faith to have so faith is interpretation in itself.

To have faith in God in itself is an interpretation. So, for God so loved the world that he gave John 3:16, his only begotten Son. Whosoever believes in him should not pay for everlasting. For God did not send his Son to the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him, might be saved. So the death of Jesus showed something. If he did nothing, look at the contrast now. If he did nothing in disobedience, when Israel disobeyed, then he did nothing when the disobedience attacked him. So he bore his own wrath, his own silence. He did nothing when the disobedient attacked him. Remember the parable we explored earlier in the four Gospels, teaching on the vineyard, Luke 20, where we find, as it were, a patient God, let me now send the air. He said he had sent the other servants.

They had killed them. He had sent the prophets. They had killed them. He now sent the heir, the other guy. Let us kill him. That's similar to Jesus brothers, depicting how many prophets have come in his name. God killed the Servants and the prophets. And they eventually killed the Son of God or they killed God. So it shows that what we have in redemption is how God allow me use this phrase is helpless in human wickedness and the time of Jesus. In the case of Jesus, it shows how he will turn it around for good if we have faith and believe in his saving power. So God seemed to just have allow his enemies have their way. Matthew 23:38, Luke 19:41:44, Luke 21:24. We read that earlier in Psalm 81:1014.