Because I go to my Father and you see me no more. That phrase was in John 14:19. You shall see me because I live. You live also. I go to prepare a place for you. John 14:2. Later in John 16. Okay, John 14:27. I live with you, my peace. Let not you have the trouble. Don't be afraid, I'll come again to you. John 16, Verse 19 and 20. Weep like the world weeps. But now 22 you have sorrow, but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice. 22 And your joy no man will take from you in that day. So when he says, you see me no more, there's a shorthand of saying, I will come back and now live in you. So that's why in Romans 8:10, the Spirit is life because of what God has put in the right place.

So to teach the darko zule of God without the new Mahabhar will be an incomplete information. So the book of Romans is like Romans 4, the story Romans 5. What happened? Romans 6. How did God get you out? Baptism. Romans 6, 3, 4, 5, which is the Exodus. Then the law is given. Romans 7, Romans 8. There is therefore now no condemnation. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ. The law of sin and death is. The law was given, it was broken because when Moses came down from the mount, as he saw them worship the calf, he just broke the law into two. And that's the law of sin and death, you know, which culminates into idolatry and all of that.

Then the second law, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ has set us free from the law of sin. And again the correction is in place. So after the baptism, you have the law. The law is giving them the Exodus. So after the Exodus, in the baptism, the law is given in Mount Horeb, Mount Sinai and all of that. Then you now have that law of the Spirit of life. What shall deliver me from this body of death. Israel has failed, determined me. But there is a second Exodus. There is the law of the Spirit of life, that is in Christ Jesus, that made me free from the law of sin and death. So here I am, led by the Spirit. Romans 8:14, which is again an inheritance concept.

I'm led from bondage to freedom, not the spirit of bondage again to fear. Romans 8:15. I'm led to the inheritance. That inheritance is Spirit in us. Listen carefully now. And our inheritance is the whole world and the whole world where we have the riches of the Gentiles. Our inheritance is that missiology of the Church, where we now begin as the Church, to begin to put it right in our preaching, teaching, discipleship. What is going on is that we are replenishing the earth's supply, subduing it, having dominion, multiplying the seed of God in the earth by preaching, teaching, by good examples. So in John 16:8 will convince the world because they believe not you, because you are to be made right by the Spirit.

And judgment on the devil, because there is a a decision on the devil which you can also call a catacrima against him, you know. So the aros parakletos becomes the proof of God's righteousness. So the resurrection of Jesus becomes thesis Croesus, which is the judgment of evil. John 3:19 John 5, 22 John 5, 24 John 5:27 John 5, 29 John 5:30 John 7, 24, John 8, 16 and very precisely John 12:31 we have a catacrema against so Jesus's death, burial. Resurrection is a condemnation against evil, against betrayal, against wickedness, against traditional scriptures, against false doctrine, against false wrong, temple worship, against idolatry. So the resurrection is vindication of goodness over evil, and also of judgment over evil. This is God's righteousness, His diako.

So in other words, our subject of righteousness must first of all pay attention to my mercy must be corporate, then individual, then eventually corporate. It mustn't be me righteous, it must be God setting things right, bringing together a new humanity. Then I'm part of it. When I receive it by faith in his faithfulness, then I begin to carry out the mission of that new humanity. Genesis 126:28 so righteousness therefore is a big word that cannot be enclosed in being justified. Because I sinned, I no longer sin. The lack of understanding of that is why, you know, the doctrine might be misunderstood. So what will be done today?

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/