You can't be using phrases of this world like everything is in place. No, everything is not in place. So we must therefore accept, you know, the Groaning of the Spirit, as it were, that we face today. So therefore it's key to know that the essence of the laws of Moses. Let's look at 1 Kings 4. 1 Kings 4, Verse 25. So can I ask you a question? Can we therefore say that the laws of Moses are instruments of God's righteousness? I'm asking a question. Yes, To treat it right. So we mustn't have a narrow prism of the subjects of righteousness. 1St Kings 4:25. For he had dominion over all the regions inside the river, the Tipsah, even to Aza, over all the kings on his side and river he had peace. That's Solomon on all sides round about him. Micah 4:4.

Another thing is that when you look at their walls, a lot of things were monarchical. They had kings. Micah 4:4. They shall sit every man under his vine and under his feature, and none shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts has spoken it, which is the end point. Zechariah 3 and 10. This will be like the intent of the laws saith, the Lord of hosts shall call every man his neighbor under the vine and under the fig tree. This is the end point. That is the Old Testament seeks to have a unifying factor for everyone. Poverty has already happened. God. Racism is something that has started. Slavery has started God. Wickedness, class, distinction, all that has been done. So sit back as God. You have men in that system.

They don't have your spirit, but they believe in you, they have faith in you. And so you gradually take those men from the towards the ideal. But start with what is available. What's available now let's at least not kill this guy. Let's cut his hand. Let's at least not say no. Poor. If they owe you money, let them go. That may also not be fair. Let's say you know what, they can work for you after this point. Let them go. So you will see therefore the faithfulness of God to what he has promised, and then the righteousness of God. Walking through instruments of human organizations. So we are heading towards the person of Jesus, who is the fulfilling of the law. That is, the intent of the law was carried out by Jesus.

And therefore walking in the Spirit is the ultimate solution and goal of the law. So slavery mustn't be viewed from that prism of today's world. We'll go back against some definitions in last session. Promise you I won't take time today, because what you have to do so our thinking should be to have a New Testament thinking with the laws of Moses. So I can confidently quote, teach. Because Jesus taught from these same books. So when he says, look, Thou shalt love your neighbor, hate your enemies. He said, no, be like your heavenly father. When he said that, Israel understood what he was talking about. That if you look at the history, he loves the enemies. He does good to those who hate him. Those who persecute, you know, his servants. They are prayed for. It blesses those who curse him.

That is not a creation of Jesus in the four Gospels. It is what you will read of Yahweh in the Old Testament books. So in other words, right there in the Old Testament, let me use the word. Five books of Moses will come. Contrast or incremental gradual steps to the idea. So we have looked at the wars. We have said also the criminal laws are just a criminal justice system. How do you make things right? How do you achieve righteousness? That's why when a. Phineas, let's look at that text some more. 5. Oh, yeah, sick. Sorry. Watch this. Take your Bible and see something interesting. Verse 28. Okay. Aside from the fact. But murmured in their tents and hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord.

Therefore he lifted up his hand against them to overthrow them in the wilderness, to overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in their lands. They joined themselves unto barb peril. And they had sacrifice of the dead. Thus they provoked to anger with their inventions. And the plague break upon them. Then stood up Phineas, what this statement? He executed judgment. And so the plague was state. You know what he did? Numbers 25, 7 and 8. Phineas the son of Elazar, son of Aaron, the priest saw it. He rose up from among congregation, took a javelin in his hand, went after the man of Israel in the tent, thrust both of them through the man of Israel, the woman, they were having sex right there. And he says to the belly. So the plague was stayed. All right.

The plague was stayed from the children of Israel. Now look at verse 11. Phineas, the son of Eliezer, son of Aaron, the priest thus turned my wrath away from the children of Israel. While they were zealous. He was zealous for my sake among them. And I consumed not the TR of Israel in my jealousy. Therefore, behold, I give unto him my covenant of peace. And he shall have it his seed after him, even the covenant of everlasting priesthood. Because he was zealous for his God and made an atonement for the children of Israel. Look at Psalm 106, 30. He stood up, then stood up Phineas and exhorted judgment. And so the plague was stayed. And that was counted unto him for righteousness. Unto all generations forevermore. How about that? You see that? It's the same words used for Abraham.

Because Phineas was zealous for the Lord. That was what happened. Was it God who inspired him? No. But was his action right? Yes. Was the killing right? Let me put a question mark on that for now. But it was accounted to him for righteousness. Righteousness there is. He has done the right thing. So our subject of righteousness. I said this on Thursday. Should not be streamlined with the Reformed theology. I believe God. I'm justified. Hallelujah. I used to be a sinner. I no longer a sinner. God. Has I not count my sins? Now I am clean Without a fear of guilt or inferiority. That is one of the things in the bag. Righteousness also includes judgment. You said that. Justice. Putting it right. So what did Phineas just do? He put things right. That was what was available.

That was what you could think of at that time. Today we are now taught to wage war. Not against flesh and blood. We are now told that the weapons of our warfare are not canal. Why? Because. Because Christ is the end in the fulfilling of the law. We will do what Phineas did without a javelin. Does it make sense? But we cannot watch and let it go without any action on our part. So we'll do what Phineas did it. But without a javelin. Amen. I'll see you next time.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/