And I think we need to all focus on that. There were four grounds. There was the first one that fell by the wayside. One was on the hard ground, one was in the midst of thorns. One was on the good ground. I want us to focus on the one by the wayside, because the one by the wayside is the only scenario where Satan was mentioned. Matthew 13:9 said, the wicked one cometh and takes away the word that was sown in their hearts. Matthew 13:9. Why? Because they did not understand. So Matthew says, because they did not understand. We can also say because they were not taught. The reason for that was establishing a moment. Matthew 13:19, that was sown in their heart because they did not understand it. Again, In Mark's Gospel 4, Verse 30, he says he cometh immediately.

Luke 8, Luke 8, verse 12. It takes the word lest they should believe and be saved. So we have three scenarios. Of course, you have Paul, 2nd Corinthians 4, 3. If our gospel be heed, he seems it will be God of this world. I blind the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glory of Jesus Christ, of God, image of God should shine on their heart. Now look at that issue. To them who are lost, he has blind their minds, the thinking. So therefore it becomes ridiculous for anybody to think that Bible teaching can be sufficient. No, it can't be. Because the only way this understanding can be gotten is when it is taught and taught properly. So where there is no understanding, pay attention. There it says, Satan comes immediately.

Again, as a Bible student, something runs quickly to your mind. Genesis 3 comes to mind when it's not understood. Satan comes immediately. The first action of Satan was to come to a woman in an imagery and she did not understand. From that conversation it was clear. So therefore Satan thrives with where the word is not understood. And Satan is not just a guy with paint who wears black and carries a fork. He's a guy that primarily would distort people's view and knowledge of God. So let's get back to Nehemiah 8. They caused the people to understand the Hebrew. There is the word bn b I n n. It can be translated into the Greek pseudonymi, the ability to bring things together. And it makes sense. The word bin is used 169 times in the Old Testament. Hebrew in Genesis 41:33 and Daniel 10:1.

For example, Ezra 8:16 is used for understanding intellectualism or call it wise knowledge. Then he says, what did they do? He said that they made them to understand the law. And when you use the word being, it goes beyond speech. It involves studying, it involves research to understand the law, which I want us to examine is the word Torah. Now, definitely we relate the word Torah primarily to Moses because he wrote the first book of the Bible. We'll see something about that in a moment. He wrote the first books of the Bible, but then he's not the originator of the Torah. So the Torah is not falsely written. The Torah, as we're about to see, is first spoken. So the word Torah, which refers to an enactment, an instruction or an oral tradition, and can also be called a promise.

The Torah is first found before Moses was born. Genesis 26 and verse 5, Genesis 26:5. Of course, Moses is the writer here, so the bias of the writer comes in. But the point is he refers to something that happened before he was born as a Torah. This is God speaking to Abraham. I want you to pay attention to this phrase because that Abraham obeyed my voice. The same word. Call in Genesis 3:8 for a message. When we heard your voice, we heed call a message. Now look at how the voice is broken down. If you're a student of Scripture, you notice that the voice of the Lord permeates Moses writings. So let's break down the voice of the Lord. He says, it is my charge, my commandments, my statutes, My Torah. They are not. They are not like four different things.

It's just like emphasis, my charge, my commandment, my Torah. And the question here is, don't forget that there was nothing written that Abraham was reading. So basically, this is what the Gospel was. Or is a Torah an instruction, a promise forming for us the background of the entire scripture? Pay attention again. The Torah was present in Genesis 1, 2 and 3 and 4. The utterance of God is his law. Where he promises, where he warns you, where he judges a situation. It's all called His Torah, his word, his call, the word for a message. Again, you see it. I'm going to give you the instances where that phrase Torah was used before the law was given. So this helps us to understand why John will say the law came by Moses or the law was given by moses in John 1:17.

It's not talking about the law in specificity, he's talking about the writings. And you can recall the Gospel. It says in Exodus 12 and 49, Exodus 12 and 49, one law shall be to him that is unborn. And unto the stranger and sojourneth among you, there's nothing written on stones in a book. Exodus 13 and verse 9 shall be for a sign unto thee upon my hand, with a memorial between thy eyes. And the Lord's law may be in thy mouth, for the strong hand has brought thee out of Egypt. This promise of deliverance is also called his law. Exodus 16 and verse 4, where the word law again is, walk in my law. This is before Exodus 19 and Exodus 20. Exodus 16 again, verse 28. Keep my commandments and my laws.

Then Exodus 18, verse 16, Exodus 1816 and Exodus 18, verse 20. Yeah. So therefore it's not used for what we assume is do's and don'ts. No. The law of God therefore brings together the understanding of God's utterances. And maybe I should add the word Torah, which is what we call the law again, is from the Egyptian system of education. It simply means an education, a subject, a course, a degree, or a research. In other words, God's utterances are being compressed into what should be studied. It should be studied, and so we shouldn't have a bias with the word law. The gospel that was preached to Abraham is the law. The gospel that was what God said to Adam and Eve is equally His Torah.

So we must therefore not have a biased view of every word, as been said many times, that words only have meanings in the context where they are used, and the word law will come into view. It therefore means that the genesis of the word law will be found in. Because it has to do with an interaction. It's found in several places. For example, Genesis 2:16, of every tree of the garden, thou mayst freely eat Torah. But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, thou may not eat of it. Torah, the day you eat of it, you will die. See how the word law is. And Genesis 3 and 8. When we heard your voice, we heed, Adam, where art thou, Torah? Genesis 1:3, God said, Light be Torah. He called this day and called that night Torah.

So the Torah of God, which is what we research in our findings and study, is not just what is written, is also what is spoken. So therefore to the Jew, when we say Torah is something that existed before it was compressed or put into writing. Once again, Nehemiah. Nehemiah, chapter eight. So you said that they brought to their understanding, they made them understand the being that the word tsunami, Luke 24:44 or 45, he opened Eve their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. That's exactly what Luke is writing here from. Luke definitely is writing from here by saying this and not just that. Look at James, Joshua 1:8. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth.

Now, do you notice that he's not saying this should not be part of your mouth, that when you build a house, you must not. You must put a balcony. That doesn't make any sense. For you meditate day and night. So for you to meditate the Hebrew word aga, it shows therefore that he's talking about studying it. Now, you know, for you and I look so simplistic. Oh, on every first day of the week, ensure that you do this. If you are going to wear a cloth of two colors, you're going to, why, there's no need to meditate on that. But by using meditate on that, it means just the same way we go to colleges to study degrees. The law of God. God must be studied. It must be researched. It mustn't be given what you call a face, value, glance.

It must be understood. And it can only be understood by study. Now verse 8 is the high point of this. Nehemiah 8:8. So they read in the book of the Law distinctly. The word to read is the Hebrew word quara q A R a is used in Genesis 1:5. And God called. It means to proclaim, to read out loud. It has to do with preaching. It's what we call today preach. So therefore that word is not just a use of words, but a use of words to clarify. So when you say and God called the first day and the second day, and he called. It's a message. So when you have the word kwara, not just a question of speaking, is speaking accurately to be understood. So by using the word kwara, it's a teaching tool. Interestingly, it says verse 8.

Again, they read in the book of the Law. Then he says distinctly the word parash distinctly is what you use for interpret. Come to the epistles and call it dar menu to interpret. So right from the Old Testament, teachers of the law were interpreters. They are meant to research it, they are meant to study it properly and they are meant to research it accurately. Parash Leviticus 24:12, Numbers 15:34 Nehmaia 88 it means to interpret. So therefore pay attention here, which means the handling of the Scriptures is a careful work. Moses said to Joshua, meditate day and night. You can use the word study that thou mayest observe to do all that is written therein. And thou mayest prosper and have good success, because that's become a prosperity scripture.

But by the time you look at what he's referring to, and context is key, why did he ask him to meditate? He was meant to lead the nation into their clearonomous Greek, their inheritance, the eret, the land the Lord had given them. And if you are going to be a leader, a Christian leader, you must meditate how often day and night. That is the way you can observe to do all that is written therein. In other words, he's saying to him, just like he said to Timothy, Paul, from a child you have known the Holy Scriptures, 2nd Timothy 3:15, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, using Christ Jesus.

All scriptures given by inspiration of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction, righteousness that the man of God Paul is reading through Moses, speaking to Joshua, meditate. So you will deal wisely, which means that if you take the writings carelessly, you will carelessly handle the people of God. 2Nd Timothy 2:15. Sorry. To show thyself approved unto God was pudespudazo a workman that need not be ashamed rightly preaching the word of truth. Dividing the word of truth. Exactly what name I seen here that the teachers of the law are doing. They are making it distinct, interpreting it. Look at the second word. The second word there is. And when they sorry and cause them to understand what being comes back Again the reading. Now the second word reading there is the word mikra M I Q R A.

It means a common assembly, which is what we call today the unity of the faith. That is, everybody is taught the same thing. In other words, what Nehemiah is saying here is there is a common assembly interpretation of the law. Exactly what Jesus does or did in Luke's gospel. 24. So therefore the student or the preacher of the Scriptures has a duty to meditate, a duty to be studious of the things that are so written. Let me say it again that the Bible is a research material. It's not a book of quotes. It's not a book of mere reference. It is a complete study in itself. It's worth fifty years, sixty years, hundred years, one thousand years, two thousand Years and three thousand years of consistent dogged search. It's not a newspaper bulletin.

It therefore becomes necessary for us as people of God, precisely those of us who are also handlers of this before people, to take it to heart that the job is not as easy as it seems. It's a delicate one. We must therefore see ourselves as interpreters of God's counsel. And so back to Luke 24. What Jesus was doing there is to fulfill. Allow me use that, what Nehemiah speaks of in Nehemiah 8, verse 8 through 7 through to 8. A few things therefore will come to mind before we go to some details. Go back to Luke 24 and just show you something quickly that is critical in our study. Luke 24. Okay, now, for example, you know, and you can just write this down. Oftentimes when I go into the epistles and this is the danger that we face.