Feast together in your word. Thank you for either. Though you've helped us to understand the Scriptures, we ask this morning that you guide our hearts as you provide more wisdom and insight that is found. The knowledge of your Son, Jesus. We ask and receive. There's clarity in the Scriptures as we study through the Old Testament and the Book of Luke, that your minds align with yours together as a church with the whole Jesus Christ, your Son, as he sees us in him, he's glorified and we're edified. Amen. All right, let's have a seat. First Corinthians 15. Quickly. We're going to read a whole lot of scriptures this morning and pay very good attention. Don't forget, it's a chain of thoughts that we began a couple of weeks back and just want to continue in that order. First Corinthians 15 and then verse 1.

Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received, and wherein you stand, by which also you have. You are saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. And he was buried and rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. Now again we look at the word gospel, which I've said is an Isaiah phrase. It's an Old Testament word that has to do with news. News of conquest, the news of the claim of territory, and in the context of Isaiah, the news of the return of the king and kingdom. We've seen that in Isaiah 42, 52, 53, 61.

It's the context of a king has returned. Again you wonder what king. Now cast your mind back to two things or three. The first israel didn't speak about Kings until Exodus 19. We're going to see that where Moses spoke to the people, of course, on behalf of God, saying that it's a kingdom of priests among all nations. Exodus 19, 5 and 6. The kingdom of priests. You have the same word Melek used for dominions and kingdoms and all of that. Then you notice again that Moses carefully spoke about how kings should conduct themselves, which means that despite the fact that there wasn't a provision for kings, I mean, earthly government and all that, he had made instructions about, that then, very precisely, is when Israel wanted a physical, human king. And Samuel was wondering why they wanted it.

And the Lord said, they've not rejected you, they have rejected me. So I want you to have that at the back of your Mind, and that's one of the things we said in this series, is that you must endeavor to read the Scriptures together. You must study the Old Testament together as a single book and not pick them in piecemeal. So that is critical to understand the place of kingdoms. So when we say return of the king or a conquest, therefore it means that promise that was made has been fulfilled. Has been fulfilled. Now, in what format? Don't forget that when Isaiah gave that promise or that prophecy, Israel was basically experiencing what you can call exile. And so it therefore relates in their world. When you say the kingdom has been returned, the king has come, you are talking from an exile position.

And that's the context of reading and studying it. Context, they say always is king. So you look at the exile position, you know things which is vital. So, but again, notice what the good news is, how that Christ died for our sins. Catatuscraphas according to the Scriptures. That's the good news there. And he was buried and raised again the third day according to the Scriptures. And then you find a few other elements that were mentioned by Paul. The preaching in verse 11, verse 12, those who preached that the dead weren't raised, and all of that. And then verse 14, if Christ be not risen, he says that our preaching is vain. And also your faith. This is a Greek word that means rubbish. Rubbish.

Then in 17, he says, if Christ be not raised, then your faith is vain and you are yet in your sins. Now notice that the context of exile, therefore will relate to this. You are yet in your sins. Put it in brackets and say you are in exile. So which means that the exile position of the Old Testament was to show the bondage of sin. As you know very well, the Old Testament was written using real life experiences in the format of a parable or an imagery to show deeper spiritual truths. So when you were saying according to the Scriptures and you refer to sins, that means that I'll go back and reread it, you know, without necessarily having to look out for Christ written in any text was seen within the experiences of the Old Testament saints.

Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and he was raised from the dead the third day. Catatast Graphites. According to the Scriptures, again, it also refers to the fact that there's no text or scripture. He's referring to saying that when you read them together, which implies already that theology has to be systematic. It cannot be reactionary, it cannot be momentary. It has to be deliberately systematic. What I mean by that is that the reader the student must develop the capacity to read Scriptures together and in a systematic fashion. Orderly, if you mind. So when we look at what I call the most slippery. This is arguably the most slippery part, explaining the Old Testament is either you go the route of, well, Old Testament people didn't know God, which is simplistic and very dangerous.

Because if you use that platform, anything you do to the Old Testament, never forget that what we call the New Testament and the Old Testament is a matter of semantics. So the semantics, because the Old and the newness of it has nothing to do with the time. So when you refer to, oh, that's the Old Testament, and then you quickly run out of the explanation, it simply means that you are going to create a lot of landmines which will evolve. And that's, I guess, one of the ways why we have not been able to properly handle the typical atheist whose grouse is in how we explain the Old Testament. Now we're going to be able to. It's a very slippery area. And so I would really require that you think and think very well with me.

We're going to navigate it together because it's an. I think I told you a few years ago that we're going to look at the wars, and that's where we are now. The other ones we studied so far were very elementary, very easy to pass, but want to look at the wars and the Bible, as honest as it is, records it for you. So now I will tell you my challenge initially, which I believe I've overcome and I'm confident I have, was because if you initially look at it, oh yeah, it's the Old Testament. Look at the elementary explanation, whether they didn't hear God well, and then you won't go and say, well, and then you say, is the devil. Of course, all that's in the scenario is the devil. Demons, angels, missed it. Fine. But then you go to.

Before I go there, you now need to explain, you know, how nobody who is a hero, or let's say arguably 75% of the heroes of faith were involved in exactly what we are talking about. And so the issue now would be, okay, how do you come out of that? Again, we come back to the burden, if you allow me to use that phrase, of a systematic approach to scripture. So Hebrews 11 was where I met the grimmest of all challenges. And I use the word grim with all sense of responsibility. Hebrews 11, which, you know, we could run away with the Pauline cryptic explanation of Second Corinthians 10. Three, though we walk in the flesh. We don't war after the flesh. The weapons of our warfare are not canal.

When Paul is saying that already, you know he's reading the Old Testament out for you. But almighty through God to the pulling down strongholds, casting down every imagination, bringing every thought to the obedience of Christ. And every item that exhausts against knowledge of God. Bring every thought to the obedience of Christ. Then you look at that and say yeah, that's 1 Timothy 6 and 12. Fight the good fight. Fight of faith. Second Timothy 4, 7. I fought the good fight. Maybe Jude 3, maybe that's not pointing with Jude 3. Contend anything for the faith. And then you go away with that. But then you have Hebrews 11. And Hebrews 11 presents for us a scenario that requires explanation. You know that I mean, Paul is clear. But in Hebrews 11, verse 32 now mentions the wars.

He says, what shall I say more would say there is actually to describe for the time will fail me to tell of Gideon, of Barak, of Samson, of Jephthah, of David, also of Samuel and the prophets. These are known figures. In other words, he stopped initially at Joshua. And then in fact we shouldn't do that. We should look at, I mean you look at. Okay, initially you look at. Well, they were in Egypt, the Honda Bondage. So you can explain the way God rescued them from Egypt, the Exodus. They only perished because they were trying to do it by their strength. And that's fine. But then you now start talking about 30 by faith the walls of Jericho fell down.

You need to go and read that story to know that it's not saying that there was just one fence somewhere came down and everybody clapped and they walked through it. You get it? Then he says that after they had encompassed about seven days by faith Rahab the Arlot perished not with them that believed not when she had received the spies with peace. And then you look at the fact that this writer has included war and used war in a positive light. Because when he said they perished, I hope you know he's not talking about the end of life. He's talking about a war. Then he says, well, time will fail him. He's now in Joshua is now in Judges to talk about Gideon Barak, not Obama, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel and of the prophet.

A period you can call will be the fundamental background of wars and call it in today's language alleged and suspected genocide. Then 33 becomes more troubling. Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness. Wow. Obtained promises Stopped the mouth of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in the fight, turned to fly the armies of the aliens. So the writer of Hebrews has simply allowed the facts to come to our faces. So we have Joshua judges one of the of course, you have first Samuel to second Samuel areas that I'm sure we didn't know the implications by ignoring it until you look at the fact that the epistles here have put it in writing for you to see that they were by faith. So let's examine the words. 33 Says subdued kingdoms.

The word there is the word katagozonimai K T a G O N I Z o m a I Basileios used for kingdoms, which literally means they overcame kingdoms and took power. Then he says there, that's verse 33. And wrought righteousness. Now the word wrought is the word egazomai, which means to perform E r G a Z o m I used 41 times REM testament Greek. It means to perform righteousness. Righteousness is the word diacozuli, which is also used for justice or putting things right. So in other words, he's saying the wars put things right. The wars, they put things like Darko Sunni. You know, naturally you probably talk about righteousness and no condemnation. But this concept here is righteousness of doing the right things or putting things right. So he calls the wars justified.

Then mentions obtain promises, stop the mouth of lions, which is where you have to stop a little bit and pose. Because if you look at the Old Testament very well, maybe there are just two people you are going to talk about when it comes to lions. You talk about Samson, who has already been mentioned, and the next person is Daniel, who has not been mentioned. So if you say stop the mouth of lions, it can't be one lion. And in this case the mouth of the lion was not even stopped. The lion was killed.

So when he says stop the mouth of lions, we need to look at the word stop, which is the word frasso in the P H R a double S o which interestingly at Paul had mentioned in Romans 3:19 every mouth may be stopped, referring to all men being guilty by the law. Romans 3:19 and then 2nd Corinthians 11 and verse 10, Second Corinthians 11:10 as the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me of this boasting in the regions of Achaia, which means the stopping of the mouth of lions has a lot to do with what was Said. And that's why he uses the word stomata, used for speech. So therefore, look at the word lions. Of course, if I read lions, the first thing on my mind is the zoo or lions in the forest. Forest.