So God's sacrifice is what God will do. Evil is judged and sent away in the atonement. So if I read the righteousness, I have Genesis 15, Abraham believed in God 1 Genesis 18, Abraham will command his household to do right. Genesis 22, now I know you obey my voice. And so we find Paul, explore the three. James explored the three. And people think Paul and James were contradicting no James. In James 2, focus on Genesis 22, the walks of faithfulness or the walks of faith. All of that we explored. That is why God himself is called righteous. So if righteousness simply means you were doing something bad, now we've forgiven you. How is God called just? Therefore, it means to be equitable, to be just, to do what is right. So our narratives must always be in our use of words.

So the concept of using shorthand in teaching is good for starters. But as we proceed further, we need to explore the narratives, and we'll see all that as we proceed. And therefore, within all that is being said, we have the duty to handle scriptures. Well, now, allow me use this phrase. Let me see whether it resonates with you, whether it's proper. Should we therefore not refer to the epistles as punchlines? Will we be also pleased to see that? Huh? Wouldn't be out of place. See, they are punchlines. They are not. They are not. They are short forms, right? Okay. Which means that it therefore becomes impossible. It becomes impossible to say you have studied the epistles, if you didn't study it with the Old Testament, would that be correct? Would that be correct? Because it will mean using words out of context.

So it means that teaching within the context is using words along the original narrative. Correct? Would that be correct? Original. The narratives of the epistles must therefore be carried along within the teaching of it. So the context, therefore of the epistles who remain the Old Testament, I mustn't connect. I must find out the narrative of words, phrases and sentences. Which drives us to critical and important things. For example, even the Old Testament writings have their own background. And you allow me, therefore to get into a few of the details. And we said, therefore, this is going to be found in our book Wrath of God. That is one of the phrases there. We may have amended as well.

We said a textual problem may be the product of present day limited knowledge about how, for example, ancient Hebrew language was used, because oftentimes the translators might be dealing with dialectic phenomena. That is a situation that comes out of foreign loan words which were borrowed. A loan word, for example, is part of writing. What do I mean? Look at when I say cliche. Cliche is an English word, but it's not English. It's borrowed. When I say tranche is borrowed. When I say avalanche is borrowed. When I say fiance is borrowed. I loaned it from another medium. Now you see words like hallelujah, even the word messiah is not a spiritual word. The word messiah, for example, is anyone who delivers. So we can go on and on. I'll still come back to that in a moment.

So it's therefore important that when a reader of the New Testament reads the New Testament, he knows that he will have borrowed words from the Old Testament. Let me quickly throw this in before we get into a few critical issues this morning. Now, because the New Testament is primarily Greek and then the Old Testament is primarily Hebrew, forget the shades of therefore means that there is no way a New Testament teacher. Let me use that phrase for teaching the New Testament can run away from understanding the Hebrew language just the same way today we have to go back to the Greek to understand certain words used in the English. It goes to the very root of the Bible itself, which is primarily Hebrew language. A translator is an interpreter who stands between two worlds.

He will take this world where it originally said to this world where, just like Nehemiah, he must make the people to understand. There is no way he can avoid this world where it's originally written. And there's no way he can avoid this world where he wants to communicate it. He therefore will stand in two worlds and find a unifier. Now imagine the distance. We're not going to come to English. And not just English. Today's English. So the translator has more than a singular Job. I submit that every pastor is an interpreter, a translator. He must take the seat of a researcher dutifully before he comes into conclusion. Now the question therefore is how important is understanding? Who agrees with me that understanding is everything? Is everything if you don't understand it, which means you cannot put the facts together.

They say knowledge are the facts. They say that understanding is to contextualize knowledge. Knowledge are the facts. Understanding is to understand contextualized knowledge. What is the context of this fact then? Wisdom, they say, is the application of contextualized facts. Let me explain. What we call drug abuse are oftentimes. I mean, there's something I read up two days ago about a clinical trial procedure and I just kind of felt, okay, people are doing vaccines, why not just allow? They said, there's one something from Madagascar, then we just drink it. And the guy said, he's not done that way. That certain things can work with certain people and kill more people. So, oh, how is that possible? Is it not the same sickness?

No, that oftentimes you have two people present the same cases and you won't give them the same education because you have to have history. And the guy went, and I got bored. I said, you have to what? Just get the thing out of the fellow's body. It's not done that way. You need to contextualize. How old are you? The age will come in the bmi. I said, we'll just drive. I said, we just lay hands. Exactly. You need to contextualize the knowledge. It goes with every system of truth or knowledge. It must be contextualized. He said, there are plants that can kill if used wrongly. He said, why is it that an overdose will kill? Something that should cure will kill because it's overdosed. At times a drug will kill a fellow because it is not addressing the sickness, because the sickness wasn't present.

People have caused sicknesses because they use a drug for a sickness that doesn't exist. You kind of feel, is it not a drug? They said, no, it's not. Just, it's not a drug for nothing. So that means you have to contextualize it. So understand is everything. So therefore the teacher must understand, you must contextualize it. What are we dealing with here? And it does mean therefore that we must treat Bible texts as sacred things. As sacred things. God doesn't just want us to know his truth. He wants us to know it truthfully and present it the same way. So this brings us to reopen and re explore how to interpret a text at every juncture as a Bible teacher, a Bible instructor, a pastor, a counselor, what. Whatever job you do, discipling people you are meant to teach.

Didasco from the word Didache and the Daskalos we have seen so far is what Moses said to Joshua. Joshua 1:8 Day and night in Psalm, one Psalmist says, Blessings of man that stands the way of sinners come full. But his delight is the law of the Lord. In this law does he meditate day and night. So we ought to be knocking the door of our minds regularly with the Torah of God, day and night. We're therefore brought about with the need to look at the text and look at the text with understanding. Therefore, it is very elementary to imagine context just being reading the book alone. No, context is not just reading in paragraphs, even though that is a sub text of the understanding of text. Context is saying, what's the narrative here? Context therefore explores the root of statements.

Many times the context is not in the book, whilst the immediate application will be within the book, because you have to look at the world. But the contextualized understanding of statements will be found in the narratives behind them. So how do I arrive at explaining text? I used to say these words for many years. Context is king. I think I have a better contextualized understanding of that statement now. Therefore, in every. As we have seen, the Bible is called gamma, a literature. That's what it is. 2Nd Timothy 3:15. From a child you have known the Holy Scriptures, Eros. Grammar is a literature. And because it's a literature, a lot of things will come to mind. Every literary work will, first of all, on face value, carry the mind of their awful.

So the first question before you and I, because we're looking at understanding, the first question is, who or what determines the meaning of a text? The first is, you didn't write it, so it can't be subjective. You have to be objective. So first and foremost, who or what determines the meaning of a text? First and foremost we say, where is the author? But a lot of issues will come to destabilize that understanding. Firstly is, if what the author is dead. And secondly, you have issues like there are certain things that till today, no matter how astute you are, many don't know what the author meant. Why did he write this? In 1 Timothy 2:15, where Paul says that the woman will be saved in childbearing, she continues in faith, we can only look at it, what is he saying?

One of those texts that you don't have context that you can refer to. So that's the Multiplicity. Why did Mark, for example, Mark 1451-52 give us a scenario? We've done this study in our study in the Book of Mark. Mark 14:51, 52. What's the essence of showing us that there was a guy who had who was naked and he left the linen clothes and fled from the naked one? Who, who was the guy? Is Mark. Okay, what's it about? And it just shows that sometimes we might just not know because we have nothing to corroborate this what the author meant. So I'm trying to say that the author does not have knowing the intention of the author is not as straight jacketed as we think. And then you begin to see a few other things that will emerge.

When Isaiah was talking about Lucifer and he spoke About Lucifer, Isaiah 14, we know the immediate reference was an earthly king. So if I stick with the author having the meaning, I'll have to say, well, there's nothing spiritual about his saying, it's just an imagery. How do I read Isaiah 52 through to Isaiah 53 and say, well, he's talking about Jesus. No, he uses the word servant. And if I backtrack to Isaiah 49, I will immediately, without any thought, say he's talking about Israel. Without being subjective, without having a praying for meaning israel. So if I stick to the author of a statement, then I will be drawn to his immediate use, which I just mentioned. Now Isaiah 52:13 to Isaiah 53, verse 12, how saith Israel? Isaiah 49, verse 1 to 7. Yes.

When I read Paul in Romans 10:14, 16 for individuals, Romans 15:21, 2nd Corinthians 6 and 2 Philippians 2:16 for himself Paul, Galatians 1, 15:16, Galatians 2:2 Acts 13:47, that popular text low return to the Gentiles saying that you counted yourself unworthy of eternal life. You must first hear these things. And he's quoting from Isaiah. And I'm thinking, how did Isaiah write this about Paul or even about Jesus? Because in the immediate context is there is exile. Israel has filled in his responsibility. Isaiah, just like every prophet, brings them to remembrance. This is what you have to do. So if I stick with the author, then it will mean that I'm just going to read that as Israel, Does the author hold the meaning? Yes, but how he does we must exploit.

So if I look at the immediate emphasis, I might not exactly have a meaning. So therefore I have a broader context of scripture. Knowing that scripture has pay attention a past application, a present immediate context, and many times what you can call an eschatological meaning what it predicts. So there could be texts that predictive in nature what it predicts. If I read Genesis 2:18 and I read about the Azar, I therefore must sit back and say, the writer here is Moses. He has an exiled Israel. He's used the nice of a husband and wife. Then it mentions a helper who is a deliverer and messiah in this context. So I'm able to explore that as well. Just giving you different ways to think. Again, Isaiah 28, the Septuagint has it as tongues.

But here Isaiah 28, where Isaiah talks about another tongue, Paul will say he's talking about speaking unknown tongues. Sorry, in tongues in 1 Corinthians 14. But then what I read in Isaiah 28:11 is he will speak to these people in a strange tongue which first and foremost is judgment, judgment because of unbelief. And Paul will make reference as saying, it's not unbelief. He says it's a sign to them that believe not, which means it's a distinction between the saved and the unsaved. So whilst we drive home the narrative of tongues, context of it is it's a sign to those that believe not. Where did Paul get that from? Isaiah 28:11 and 12, what was Isaiah talking about? Judgment for a box leading exiled Israel. So that means text can be predictive in nature in their context. And that's something we explore. Now one more.