Jeremiah 9:24. Let it that glory go in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the Lord, which exercises loving kindness, judgment and righteousness in the earth. In this I delight, saith the Lord. Look at that. Loving kindness, judgment and righteousness. Loving kindness, judgment and righteousness. 2Nd Corinthians 11. Paul talks about the simplicity of the Gospel, which he said, just like the serpent beguiled Eve, Aplos is a Greek word there which means the one sided Gospel or the one mannered Gospel, therefore means that every time Scriptures are quoted out of context, they are twisted. Every time Scriptures are quoted spontaneously, they are twisted. Every time Scriptures are taught in our world alone, they are twisted. Every time Scriptures are taught outside the Messiah principle, Messiah truth, they are twisted.

Every time Scriptures are taught out of his long history that ends up in the four Gospels, they are twisted. Every time that Scriptures are quoted without the exegesis of corroboration throughout the Scriptures, they are twisted. Every time the language of Scriptures, imagery, personification, sarcasm is abandoned, they are twisted. Every time a literal fact is explained figuratively, they are twisted. Every time a figurative word is explained literally, it is twisted. So therefore it is incumbent on us in our delivery of God's Word, to Retain it in its truth, It must be retained in its truth. Therefore, the need for correct Bible interpretation is not for Bible school. It's for every believer. Every believer. Just like Nehemiah 8, 7, 8 we must be able the easy to read version. Put it like this. They read the book of the law of God.

They made it easy to understand, explained what it meant. They did this so that the people could understand what was being read. Nehemiah ate 7 to 8 from the ERV Proverbs 1:6 to understand the parable and the interpretation and the words of the wise and their dark sins, don't we mustn't gloss over Scriptures. We mustn't gloss over what is written. Like we said, these are the words of eternal life. Sometimes you feel, oh, John 6 those guys were he said the bread of life. And why would they understand it? You have to realize that in not even knowing the context of statements or where he is teaching from in his own, you will misinterpret scriptures.

So therefore, as much as it's important to give sermons, to write short things, to exhort people using what we call salmonate, short sermonate or use punchlines, the teacher of God's word must recall what James says in James 3:1. I want us to look at it together. James 3:1 My brethren be not many teachers. That's the word masters. Knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation if many things we offend. If a man offend not in speech, the same is perfect and able to breathe the whole body. See what he says. He's saying communication is everything. If you offend not in speech. Look at the intro. The intro was to talk about a preacher. So the preacher must be controlled. Must put beats on his own mouth just like the horse. Ensure that the truth of God's word is presented truthfully.

So the Old Testament is before us the word of God. It's before us the gospel of salvation. It's the word of faith in Romans 10:8. It's the doctrine of righteousness. Hebrews 5:13. It is the word of life. Philippians 2:15. It is the word of second Timothy 4:2 is Acts 19:20. The word of God. It is the Colossians 3:16, word of Christ. It is the gospel of our salvation. Or say the gospel of the grace of God. Acts 2:24. It is the word of his grace. Acts 20:32. It is the words of this life. Acts 5:12. The Old Testament. It is a prophecy of the Scriptures. Second Timothy, second Peter. Sorry, 1:20. It is the Scriptures of the prophets. Romans 15. Sorry. Romans 16:26 it is the gospel of God. Romans 1:2. It is the gospel of Christ. Romans 1:16 it is this gospel.

Matthew 24:14 it is this gospel or the gospel. Mark 16:15 it is the discipleship teaching. Matthew 28:18 it is what is to be taught. Matthew 28:19. It is the demonstration of the Spirit and the power. First Corinthians 2, 4 and 5. It is the revelation of the Spirit. First Corinthians 2:10. That is the old Testament. The Old Testament is what the writers of the epistles describe. That way. It is also called the law. Galatians 4:13, I believe. Yep. The law is the law of God. Romans 3:31. So we must therefore treat it that way. It is the message of salvation through faith which is found in Jesus. 2Nd Corinthians 2nd Corinthians Timothy 3:15.

It is the glorious gospel, 1st Timothy 1:11 of the blessed God referring to Genesis, to Malachi, whilst in the heart of those the audience, it was Musterion that was assisted by a Masha parable illustration that requires interpretation and teaching. And so in the way we handle the Old Testament, we mustn't anymore in any way shade say, well, the Old Testament, the New Testament is better and we're going to approach this by the grace of God on Saturday. And why there's that comparison? What is being compared to. You will now see why Paul doesn't use the phrase new covenant, if he does at all. It is very in a diminutive way. You see that Paul just taught the Scriptures, so the comparison is not necessary. What should be compared, we are going to view it because the New Testament is the law.

So what is being compared? I said it and I'm going to say it again in closing, that the Old Testament is way beyond just the law of Moses and the law is more than the law of Moses. So having known that, we therefore will know, the basis of comparison is not found except a particular exception which we are going to see. So good morning.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/