For the vision is for an appointed time, and at the end it shall speak again. The word it is not in the original, not lie, though it tarry, wait for it. The word it is not because it will draw it. The word it is not there. And because of that use of pronoun, if you go to The Epistles, Hebrews 10, 38 and 39, writes it from 37, and it says he, although I don't have a challenge with that, because whether it is he or he is a he in the it and the he did the it. But it shows that in their writings, much of the pronoun additions are based on contextual interpretation. But our focus is on the fourth one. Behold, his soul, which is lifted up, is not upright in him. That's a distinction. But the just.

So there is somebody who is not upright, whose soul is lifted. Of course, at the root of sin is pride. So pride is being spoken of. Here. Then it says the just Sadiq. Well, that's like a Muslim name, tsa, double D, I, Q. A word used firstly for Noah, then Abraham. The just shall live by faith. The just shall live by the faithfulness of God. By using the word just as a singular face, by identification, the believer is in there. But the just is the promised Messiah. That is the Isaac promise. And we know that it is in Isaac is the seed called. And the birth of Isaac vis a vis the resurrection are interrelated. The joy shall come alive. Isaac was born, you know, from the dead. Something like that. In the deadness of Sarah's womb, Abraham's body now dead.

Then in Genesis 22, when he was taken to Mount Moriah, he was received up from the dead in the figure. So he, like a double emphasis comes out there. So the abacus prophecy of appointed time, therefore, will equate with the Abraham, Isaac, Sarah story narrative in Genesis from 12 through to 15, then 17, then 18, 19, 21, then eventually 22. Now I want you to go to the book of Romans, because in the book of Romans and Hebrews 10, a bit of this comes to light. Romans 9. So this is the destination of the prophecy. This is the word of promise, the word of epigelia. At this time will I come and Sarah will have a son. Okay, at this time. And Paul will use the word carriers opportunity season.

Now, in second Corinthians 6 and 2, you have that word, the Day of salvation is called the time accepted in the day of salvation is the accepted time. Opportunity. Opportunity for acceptance. Galatians 6:4 6:9 in due season. 2Nd Corinthians 8:4. I skipped that. Sorry for that. 8:14. Now at this time your abundance may be a supply for their wants. That is this period where you have so kairos refers to more. It's not just the calendar time, it's the certain events that are called opportunity will be the description of the word kairos. So our mind should therefore go back to a few things. Genesis 1:11. The seed is in itself bearing forth fruit after his kind. Genesis 8:22, One of the most bastardized scriptural texts. I know.

Now, the importance of this text, again, knowing that Moses is not writing agriculture, is that disobedience has come, rescue has happened. Noah's ark was built, and God reconfirmed his desire. Of course, the long suffering of God is there desire to keep rescuing man. Then verse 21, I will not again cause the ground anymore for man's sake, for the imagination of his heart is evil from his youth. Neither will I again smite any more everything living as I have done. Again, this is Ibrahim's culture. It means I will save. Just then he says, while the earth remaineth, this is a fact. Seed and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night will not cease. And so this forms judgment from God that, you know, I will keep saving. But there's a harvest of seed, and he uses the word Zerah just the same.

Genesis 1:11, Genesis 3:15. Seed and harvest. The word harvest is the word quat seir Q A T S I r. Seed, just like the feast of new beginnings, refers to what is new, it will not cease, Right? So the key element here is that there is a principle that will keep happening, and this is cause and effect. There's nothing you can do about this. Unbelief has its harvest, you know, everything has its own harvest. The seed of the serpent, the seed of the woman, and all of that. You know, everything has its own harvest. And Jesus taught that in the parable of the Sower, clear enough for us to see. Matthew 13. You have a whole lot of parables showing you that a principle that works positively and negatively. Galatians 6, 8.

Paul says, if you sow to the flesh, you will of the flesh reap corruption. If you sow to the spirit, you will reap life everlasting. Second Corinthians 9:6:7. It says, if you sow sparingly you will reap sparingly. If you sow bountifully, you reap bountifully. So a spiritual principle is laid here. It's not a principle of getting money back. That's not absolutely nothing. This has to do with God's promise vis a vision, the adversarial effect of the enemy in the earth, sin and all of that. So therefore, in the judgment of God must always see cause and effect. There's cause and effect. As long as the earth remaineth and men in the earth seed, time and harvest will not cease. So again the question is, what determined the time Jesus came? What determined it? We'll answer it gradually and not at once.

We have seen that opportunity. So in the Sarah event, which is a corroboration, we know whether from the Genesis account or the Romans account, Hebrews account, that Sarah believed God's faithfulness. So that is critical. So there wasn't a non participation of man in the mohed in the appointed time. Because if there was, if, if it wasn't necessary for man to be aware. Look at the Daniel King said, I understood by the books that there should be a deliverance at this point. So that means even though God's word said it, the opportunity will come, will be a question of what a man does with it. I want to say this now. Oh, okay. So you have the involvement of man. Look at that abac too, right? So he that runs will read it.

So if man had no role to play, then there's no reason to write it to him. You get it. You just hear at the end of the day this has happened. Who cares what is? For there to be a written word of God's counsel, wisdom and will, it means that man has a role to play. His knowledge, his ignorance, his faith, his unbelief. So there's cause and effect. Obviously the Sodom story or the Noah's story, the flood, is cause and effect. Seed, harvest, cold and heat, day and night, winter and summer. You'll have opposites. And in the entire book of Genesis where that opposite Abel and Cain, Ishmael and Isaac, Jacob and Esau, we had code and you know, we had all that contrast, you know.

So therefore it means that what will produce night and day will be the seed sown after its own kind. There's nothing that can be done with that consistently, you know. So the contrast effect must be seen. The judgment of God. So what determined when Jesus came? That's a critical question that needs to be answered gradually. But we will not go straight to the point. We will look at the events. All right? And so looking at the events, whatever determined the events is what determined it. Already we have seen that there's cause and effect. And that's why I said the Antoniasm and the other one I wanted to mention, that's the Masonism that takes away the Old Testament totally. You say, well, it doesn't matter.

And then it almost appears like in the justice of God, in the judgment of the righteousness of God, you know, the cause and effect principle has been suspended. That is not true. The only factor is that there is the. Pay attention. The dikaios, where a man has now been accepted in the beloved, in the family of God. And so that makes him not enter into the katakrima or the eventual crisis, you know, which happens to the world. That is key. But then you now have Paul kicking out a concept called the bema seat, where what you do is judge in the body and all of that. And the body is the family, the union of God and man. So that doesn't in any way remove the concept of justice and judgment. That's just for another time. Now, what determined when Jesus came?

That's the question we want to ask. In Romans chapter. Sorry, Galatians Chapter 4, Paul used the Greek or Roman concept of adoption. And then he put it vis A vis. And when Paul does that, then we need to learn from the example he used Galatians 4, 4. Now I say that the heir, as long as is a child, defers nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all, but is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the Father. Even so we. So there is. There was that time. So they usually had a time that was known, okay, that when all these things are met, there is not like a four day, five day period. When all these things are met, then this will be done. Now he uses Chronos here. Arrangement of events which can also be used for seasons.

But that distinction should not be lost. Arrangement of events. When this has happened, that has happened. Don't forget again that John the Baptist knew that Jesus was coming. So he knew, not John alone. The angel communicated it to mary. Luke's gospel 1 Zechariah did know, Elizabeth did know by revelation and also by the knowledge of the Holy Scriptures. Then we also have Simeon and Anna. The daughter of female was a prophetess. So we have the gifts of the Spirit. Of course, in our day now in operation, in that period, okay, they knew. These are people that knew before or knew before. They even saw Jesus. Okay, maybe we should look at the Luke 2. They knew after he was born, but Mary before. And obviously Joseph didn't know before, he knew afterwards. Zechariah did know before Jesus came and he did, you know.

So the question should be what? Okay, I said, oh, sorry, I skipped something. The appointed time of the Father. Then he says, even so, when were children were in bondage under the elements of the world, and when the plural of time was come, God sending his son made of a woman, made under the law to redeem them that were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. Now again, a couple of things will come to mind. Then when he says redeem them, they were under the law. Better that's Exodus. And Exodus has a Genesis 15 that says after 400 years. So there was a 400 years prophecy which was not determined by God. They went there themselves, they stayed there themselves, they were there themselves. But it is just in the nature of God to know it.

It's not that he did it so. But in this instance, since Jesus, his incarnation has to be explained along the lines of what we are talking about. Then Paul uses this ceremony which we'll look at later, and he says, God sending forth his own son. So let's look at the events around the death of Jesus. A couple of things were in place. Of course the exile context was present. Then you had for the first time in Bible history. I don't know whether any has happened before now. There was the religious rulers, the high priests. There was a betrayal amongst his own people. There was a Roman government, hence the term princes of this world, which shows a unification of evil, historically speaking, except I'm disproved, it has never happened before. So evil was now in one place.

So that in the defeat of the seed of the serpent, it will be obvious this is what has just happened. So whether it's from the religious who twisted the scriptures, or from the secular human government, or from wickedness in the hearts of men, there has come a unison, a united front. The Pharisees and Sadducees, the chief priests, the elders, the scribes, and then the ip, sorry, elders and scribes, then the Roman government and even the people. So the event was the opportunity, but the question should now be, but this is his death. Okay, why shouldn't we look at it from his birth one meant, it simply meant that in God's again predictive nature, he knew when that time will be set. Now, we have not answered the question. I'm only giving you events around it so that we can answer it.