Yet in Joshua 11:23, probably read that earlier. Joshua 11:23. And the land rested from war. So therefore we have contradictions if we read it in surface. But if we understand the language, then we will not take it literally. Let me show you following what we're saying here. See Joshua 23. And verse 27. Sorry. And verse 7. That you come not among these nations. This. This is the end of Joshua. And he says, these nations, these that remain among you, neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves unto them. So the nation still remained. Look at verse 7, verse 12. Pardon me else, if you do in any wise go back and cling to the remnants of these nations.

Even these that remain among you, and shall make marriages with them, shall go in unto them, and do to you. Verse 13. No foresight. The Lord your God will no more drive out any of these nations from before you, but it shall be snares and traps unto you, and scourges in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from this good land which the Lord your God hath given you. This is interesting. Which means that whilst Joshua is about to die, and he still speaks of the remnants of the nations that were still with them. Chapter 16, verse 63. And the Jebusites. I'd like to read this one. Inhabitants of Jerusalem. The children of Judah could not drive them out, but the Jebusites dwelt with the children of Judah at Jerusalem until this day. Chapter 16 and verse 10.

And they drove out not the Canaanites that dwelt in Gaza, but the Canaanites dwelt amongst The Ephraimites until this day and serve on tribute. Slavery. Chapter 17, verse 13. It came to pass that when the children of Israel were waxed strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute and did not utterly drive them out. Are you following this? So what? Which means that when we read about the conquest, we have war language. It doesn't mean literally the place was leveled and everything at sight was killed. That is not true. Are you following this? Like I said, we need to first of all cross the language barrier. Have you read chapter 17? Yes. And verse 12? Yeah. Look at verse 18. And the mountain shall be thine, for it's a wood, and thou shalt cut it down.

And the outgoing of it shall be thine, for thou shalt drive out the Canaanites, though they have iron chariots and though they be strong. Look at contradictions. In Joshua 18, verse 3, Joshua said to Israel, how long are you slack to go to possess the land with the Lord God of your fathers as given unto you? So it's therefore a fact that there was no arbitrary, unreasonable conquest, total leveling of the land and mass killings? No, nothing of such happened. Let's take a trip back to Jeremy. Chapter 7, verse 22. I'm sure many people haven't read many of these texts. Jeremiah 7:22. Let's look at it slowly. And the Lord thy God will put out those nations before thee by little and little. They may not consume them. Thou may not consume them at once, lest the beast of the field increase upon you.

Judges 2, verse 20 and 23. Or 20. Yeah. And the anger of the Lord was holding against Israel, and said, because thou because transgressed my covenant which have commanded their fathers, I will not hearken unto my voice. I also will not henceforth drive out any from before them, or the nations which Joshua left where he died, that though through them may I prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of the Lord, to walk therein, as the fathers did, keep it or not. Therefore the Lord left those nations without driving them out hastily. Neither delivered he them unto the hands of Joshua, so utterly destroy everything that breathed level. The old place is a witness. War language. It's like saying Arsenal massacre. Chelsea. I'm sure you will see blood on the field. Six zero. Something like that. So, wow. We say total massacre.

Someone's wondering when is that going to happen? So this is basically the way. Well, he blew him away. I'm sure you don't think that he meant he just went and the guy flew away. Simply meant you can use it blew him away. Okay, look at fights and you say Floyd Mayweather made floor. Mayweather destroys. I don't know who's fighting this destroys. And then the guy that he destroyed is talking. I know I've lost this one. I thought he was destroyed. No, that's just a rhetoric. It's not a literal term. On somebody gives a speech and you say, my God, Samuel killed it. Man killed. What? He killed the speech. Even today we use statements like I'm dead yet speaking. You get it? In fact, there's a guy said, I die. He said, wow, that guy was killed. No. Understand the rhetoric of the day.

Understand the language of the day. So we need to cross that barrier. And therefore the ancient languages have their own war rhetoric. You might have to consult materials as old as BC 1500 or BC 2000 to understand much of this rhetoric. I read a few of my discoveries for you of such language usage that we have within the scriptures. So the first thing is to note that Israel's conquest was not just military. It was also to infiltrate and we're going to see later to basically put an end to idol worship. The key thing was that the job of Israel was to stop idolatry. That's the real war. And look at the fact that the Canaanites continue to live in the land. Maybe I should add even to Jesus. So this is basically just language. Language.

And therefore was often employed the exaggeration rhetoric to just show the strength of a particular army. These guys are powerful men. They finished off. See I the he finished him off. And the guy that was finished off still gives a press interview. So when you use words that annihilated your opponents, blew them away. You are not in any way saying that the person doesn't exist anymore. Okay, good. I found some old writings. Just for reference. This one, Egypt Thutmose III written about the 15th century. Thutmoses is spelled T U T H M O S I S this was the boast. The numerous army of Maitani was overthrown within the hour. Annihilated totally like those now not existent. The truth of the matter is that the Britannis forces lived on to fight the 15th and 14th centuries before Christ.

It was just the way they wrote about war. Another one in the Hittite history. Hittite king Mursili M U R S I double l I the second who ruled between 1322-1295 bc he said this mountain Ashipara is empty of humanity. The mountains of Tirikatimo is empty of humanity. Basically Just saying we won the war. Another book, the Bulletins of Ramses ii tells of Egypt's, you know, less than spectacular victories in Syria. You can check this. 1270, 74 BC what does he say? The entire force of the Hittites, all the chiefs of the countries, the millions of foreigners, they are now chaff. That's just the way they wrote the Menetah stele. Another material in 1230 B.C. Ramses the son of Metana also said, Israel is wasted, his seed is not. That's not true. In fact they often say this even before the war is over.

That sounds like Nigerian army. Moab's king Mesha, who also ruled between 840 to 830 BC bragged about the northern kingdom. So Israel was utterly praised. There's no more Israelite anywhere. That was a bit premature. Eventually the Assyrians did that to Israel. 7,722 BC but there's still Israel. They'll still Israel. When Jesus came last one, the Assyrian ruler of Sennacherib. Sennacherib is spelled S E W N A R C H E R I b. Between 701 to 681 bc he said the soldiers of Irimi, that's H I R I M M E dangerous enemies. I cut them down with one sword and none of them escaped. So usually that is the war rhetoric. It doesn't mean that it's a literal application of war.

Therefore the book of Joshua was written in that language spell, where you write in a lot of hyperbolism, a lot of exaggeration. So the key issue for Israel, and this is vital, is that it was more about idolatry. So it was a religious tone in war. Joshua 23, verse 12 and 13. We read that earlier, the instruction in Joshua, or is it Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 2. Tom, chapter 7, verse 2 and 3. Is when the Lord I'll start from one. You shall bring the languages you go to possess. And thou shalt cast out many nations before the Hittites, the Gigashites and the Amorites and the Canaanites and the Perizzites and the Ebizzites and the Jebusites. I usually don't like the last one. Seven nations greater and mightier than you. When the Lord thy God shall deliver them before you.

Thou shalt smite them and utterly destroy them. Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy unto them. Utterly destroy. Look at the next statement. Neither shall you marry them. Can you see? Brother shall not give unto his son and his Daughter shall also not take unto your son. Thou shalt turn away thy son from following me. They shall turn away thy son from me. They shall serve that they will serve other gods. So they will kill you and destroy thee suddenly. So you can see that there's something beneath the walls and that had to do with worship in idolatry. So the issue with Canaan was idol worship. So looking closely at what we read in Joshua 23 shows that the war emphasized ultimately the issue of worship. Israel was to destroy altars, images, sacred pillars, temples.

Maybe you need to realize that the word temple is not an heavenly language, the word shrine. Moses developed the word temple from Egypt, so they had a lot of conquests and battles to fight with idol worship. Look at Exodus 34, 12, 13. Watch yourselves that you make no covenant with the inhabitants of the land in which you are going into, or it will become a snare in your midst. Exodus 34, verse 12 and 13. He says, but rather you are to tear down their altars, smash their sacred pillars, and cut down their Assherin. So the core issue was worship. Then again, Deuteronomy 12, 2, 3, we read it earlier. Tear down their altars, smashed down their sacred pillars, burned the ashen with fire, cut down the graven images. So it's critical to see it primarily as a religious war.

It's not a human destruction battle. The core thing was they don't worship Jehovah. Now, remember, our background was to look at Paul's cryptic interpretation, casting down every imagination and every I thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, to pull down strongholds and then to bring every thought to the subjection and obedience of Christ, who is following what I'm saying here. So that's where Paul wrote that from. And today you and I, of course, from our world. You can't do that as religious discrimination and all of that, but we will preach the gospel in our world is justified. Don't forget that. So it's critical to put that in context that the issue had to do with idols and worship and to prevent Israel themselves from mingling and being worshippers of idols. Listen, what we're going to explain floor, I guess, on Monday.

And that's the word erem. Erem is used so often. H E R E m. It's the word used for the destruction. And I found it in a whole lot of more technical Hebrew texts that it simply meant consecrated destruction. You see what that means later, it had to do more with worship than with things, materials, or human beings. Once again, do not forget that the ancient world they live by wars. Do your own research and check. A thousand years back, wars were common features. Even in Africa there are common features. Just read Chinu Achebe's Things Fall Apart and the arrow of God, manner of people. And then you see that villages coexisted based on military strength. So that means the work of faith in their world. Don't forget it's going to be weak because we said it's the substance of things.

O4 heaviness of things does it. The work of faith will be carried out by wars. But did God sanction it? That's the little bit we're going to deal with later. But let's cross the language barrier first, the context barrier, then look at the interpretation. Hope you're following me. So it's critical to also know that despite the conquest of war, did Israel solve the real battle? No. Idol worship was still prevalent. So Psalm 106, verse 34 to 35. He says, because I provoked the spirit so that he spoke advice with lips. They did not destroy the nations concerning whom the Lord commanded them, but were mingled among the evening and lent their walks. They served their idols, which were a snare unto them. Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils. Watch the next statement. Please, please. You have to get this.