What happened? Solomon went into idolatry. Cause and effect. The golden question is God the source of the effect? No. The wages of sin is death. Romans 6:23 the gift of God is eternal life. The day you eat of it, you will die. What have you done? What have you done? That's what God said. He didn't say, this will I do. What have you done. Here? I'm just trying not to. So we therefore must take on that duty. 1. Don't generalize. 2. Endeavor to know the figures of speech tenses used. 3. Contextualize every scenario. Another mode by which early Church fathers, apart from using the text of permission, is to see God's abandonment. That is, when a man refuses God, when a man does not obey God, it is believed God will just abandon him. Of course, abandon doesn't mean cruelty. It rather shows helplessness.

One of the early Church fathers by the name of Gregory of Nyssa. Gregory of Nyssa. Nyssa is N Y double S A. I'll give some of you the names later. AD 335. The AD 395 he said, having by trickery mingled vice with man's free will, the enemy managed to eliminate and obscure divine blessing. With this blessing, lacking its very opposite, necessarily appeared in his face. Does Death opposes life, weakness opposes strength. He went further to say the rejection of the good once accomplished as a consequence the appearance of evil, the fact that man turned away from life, led to death. By depriving himself of light, he fell into darkness. Lacking virtue, evil appeared in his life. Thus it is all forms of good were one by one, replaced by series of opposite evils.

Saint Basile AD330 to AD379, said, Death is a necessary consequence of sin. One draws near to death to a degree that one distances himself from life, which is God. Death is the absence of life. By distancing himself from God, Adam exposed himself to death. Another person, Christom C H R Y S O S T O M who live between A.D. 340 and A.D. 407 explaining Isaiah 6, 9, 10, he says, that the saying of Isaiah be fulfilled that there is that is not that here is expressive not of the cause, but of the events. They did not believe, because Isaiah said that they would but because they do not believe, Isaiah said they would for he would not leave us, except we wish him, whereby it is plain that we begin to forsake first and at the cause of our own perdition.

For it is not the fault of the Son that it hates weak eyes. So neither is God to blame for punishing those who do not attend to his words, or for the punishment of those who don't attend to his words. We have another person, Clement of Alexandria, between AD 153 to AD 217. He said, God then is good, and the Lord speaks many a time and often before he proceeds to act. For the divine being is not angry in the way that some think often restraints often exhaust humanity and shows what ought to be done. And this is a good device to terrify to sin. For the fear of the Lord drives away sins, and he that is without fear cannot be justified. But God does not inflict punishment from wrath, but rather what we see at the ends of justice.

Since it is not expedient that justice should be neglected on our account. Each one of us who sins with his own free will chooses punishment, and the blame lies with him who chooses. God is without blame. Once more Clement of Alexandria said that God's ways of punishment is to turn away his face. Very clearly therefore by the prophet Amos, as the Lord unfolded this method of dealing with us I have overthrown you, saith the Lord, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah. But you shall be as a blind pluck from the fire, yet you have not turned unto me, said the Lord. That's Amos. See how God through his love of goodness, seeking repentance and by means of the plan he pursues of threatening silently saying, I will avert my face from them and show what will happen to them.

From where the face of the Lord sorry. For where the face of the Lord looks, there is peace and rejoicing, but where it is averted, there is the introduction of evil. The Lord accordingly does not wish to look on evil things for his good, but on his looking away. Evil arises spontaneously through human unbelief. So it was unanimous that God did not author it. Of course. Isaiah 59:1 3 Ezekiel 39:23-24 Deuteronomy 31, verse 17 to 18 Deuteronomy 32, verse 17 to 20. Origin Another church father did right apologetics against today's against their sorry those days kind of Calvinists Origin was virtually the most vociferous of those who wrote Here are some things he said. The expression why O Lord, have you had in our heart that we should not fear your name?

Used by those who prayed for mercy is to be taken in figurative sense moral acceptation. As if one were to say, why have you spared us so long? I did not requisite us when we sinned, but abandoned us so our wickedness might increase our liberty of sin be extended from punishment when punishment has ceased. Origin definitely Believed that the issue was to interpret language. There was no early church fathers up till the era of Calvin, Augustine, Reformation age, that ever interpreted Scripture to mean God wants to do this and do evil and do good. Therefore we have a duty of interpreting Scriptures properly. Let's go further. Origin says this.

But if there are opinion that any expressions occurring in such a connection in the New Testament stands in of explanation, it will necessarily follow that those recurring in the Old Testament which are a subject of censure may be freed from aspersion by an expansion of the same kind. So that by such means passages from found in both Testament may be shown to proceed from one and the same God. What he's saying is this, that if we now see anything in the New Testament that seems to negate that of the Old Testament, knowing it proceeds from the same God, it means they only require interpretation. When I read these early church fathers, I scream at what we have done to the Bible. The church fathers of their age were theologians, not people prophesying money out of people's pockets.

There are people that saw it as a duty to teach Scriptures, their writings, their exposure. Let's go, let's go further. Origin said further, he says, Continue to pour abuse upon Jesus as one who on the account of his impiety and wicked opinions, was as to speak, hated by God. That is, if you say that Jesus bore the wrath of God, that this is what you are saying, you are sad that the tenets of Eve were those of a wicked and God hater sorcerer. And yet, if the name and the thing be properly examined, it will be found an impossibility that a man should be hated by God. Seeing God loves all existing things and he hates nothing that he has made. He created nothing in the spirit of hatred.

And if certain expressions in the prophets convey such an impression, they are to be interpreted in accordance with the general principle by which Scripture employs such language with regard to God, as if he were subject to human affection. That is, anytime that from the perspective of Jesus's resurrection, if we cannot say God hated Jesus, I've seen people quote this, Romans 8, 3, that God sending his own likeness so in his own Son, the likeness of sin, and for sinful flesh condemns sin in the flesh. And let me tell you how careless he will say God condemned Jesus Christ. So who condemns you? There's nowhere where God condemned Jesus. It is he condemns sin, not Jesus by theory of God placed our sins on Jesus, condemned Jesus. We have inadvertently said God hates man or God has shown disdain for man.

Like Origen said here, we must therefore know that this text of the Old Testament that seem to confuse us are to be interpreted in accordance with the general principle by which Scripture employs such language with regard to God, as if he were subject to human affection. What is he saying? God used human language? Simple. Another church father Irenus AD175 to AD185, says that when we see difficult passages like where God is set to Add in Exodus 9:35 to blind Isaiah 6:10, he said the solution is to interpret Scripture with Scripture. What is he saying? What is the term Scripture? With Scripture it is first and foremost language. Secondly, context, reading the historical narrative of text will save you from coming to wrong conclusions.

If therefore, in the present time also God, knowing the number of those who will not believe, since he foreknows all things, has given them power to unbelief and turned away his face from men of this time, leaving them in the darkness which they have themselves chosen for themselves. What is their wonderful if he did also at the same time give over to their own belief? What he's saying is God simply foreknows and foresees what people will do. I've said it many times to treat God's foreknowledge as his action is serious injustice on his character. Adonis goes further to say that all God does is dealing with an unrepentant rebel. He writes this but as so many as continuing their love towards God, does he grant communion with Him.

But communion with God is life and light, and enjoyment of all the benefits which he has in store. But on as many as according to their own choice, depart from God inflicts that separation of himself from them by which they have chosen of their own accord. That separation from God is death that separation is darkness from light. That separation from God consists in the loss of all the benefits which he has in store. Loss. Therefore, those who cast away by apostasy these aforementioned things, being in fact destined of all good, do experience every kind of punishment. God, however, doesn't do this permission. It's a points of by himself immediately, but that punishment falls upon them, because they are destitute of all that is good.

One more he says, it is in this matter just as if it's in this matter, just as occurs in the case of a flood of light, those who have blinded themselves or have been bled by others are forever deprived of the benefit and enjoyment of light. It is not, however, that the light has inflicted upon them the penalty of blindness, but it is that the blindness itself has brought calamity upon them. And therefore the Lord declared, he that believes in me is not condemned, that is not separated from God, is united to God through faith. On the other hand, he that believes not is condemned already because he has not believed the name of the only begotten Son of God, that is God. Separate. They separated themselves from God of their own accord.

So the early church fathers understood interpreting scripture this way, it's not therefore a new development. The new development is Calvinism, Hyper Calvinism, this sovereignty. Concepts of saying God determines everything. Some of them shy away when you say, does he determine sin? They will say no, but didn't decree it. But he permitted it, he decreed it to be permitted. What are you talking about? So historically, the Old Testament was never read literally in our own language. Never, never. We owe ourselves, we owe others the job of ensuring that we make the adequate research. I ask the question again. What is the language employed here? Who is the character involved here? We mustn't like Job, shield ourselves from the characters involved. If there was a Satan in the natural disasters, in the sickness and destruction and accidents, we must identify the characters.

So it is not a New Testament creation of New Testament writers to just simply run away from the obvious and as it were, shield God from proper scrutiny of being one who does evil. It is because it was never so. So Jesus and the apostles did not create an eminiotic of denial. It was an emnotic of language, context and historical precision. You and I equally must not engage in the eminiotic of denial where we see passages of the Old Testament and simply say that was then. If we are not going to court in the extreme or in the extremity of the reformed hyper Calvinist hyper sovereignty concept of saying God knows all things, does all things, he's in charge of all things. We mustn't also say God doesn't know all things. God doesn't do all things. He's not part of it.

He didn't do anything that is worse because we make disobedience nothing, we make sin nothing. So our mode of interpretation, interpreting scripture must never be denial. We must confront it. What barriers am I to cross here? I told the first barrier is language barrier. You must cross the grammar barrier. You must. For every text that you confront, you must cross the language barrier, you must cross the context barrier where you have to read the history. Sometimes when something is said, for in Daniel, you find it in Nehemiah, go back there, you find it in Isaiah, go back there, you Exodus, you have to read that history. Well, never engage in. I'm going to repeat myself loud and clear. Never engage in the emnotic of denial. You must cross the barrier. I'm going to repeat myself. Of grammar, the barrier of context.