Where we look at the subject matter and why the Old Testament has a logos, we see all that. But Psalm 78, 2. If Psalm 78:2 is the background of Matthew 13:34 and even all the parables of Jesus. Then we need to look back at Psalm 78. It says in verse one, Give here, O my people, to my law. Incline your ears to the words of my mouth. I will open my mouth in a parable. I will utter dark sayings of old. So listen to what Matthew has done. Matthew has said, the dark sayings of old is the transliterated word musterion. Now, of course, we know that when we say musterion or mystery, we are not referring to something that is mysterious, rather something that is heed to be explained.

And we know that if the word of God is hidden, is hid in the heart of men. So which means that the phrase mystery reveals more of people's understanding than what God has said. But look at the issue here in Psalm 78, which I want to patiently understand what I'm saying that the parables of Jesus are giving a background of Psalm 78. 2. Now, Psalm 78, verse 2 now says, I will utter dark sayings of old. The word dark sayings. There is the word chiddah, which is questions needing answers. In fact, some Greek or some Hebrew writings, we call it perplexing questions. Unresolved issues in numbers 23. No, sorry, not numbers, where you have perplexing questions. But notice what it hasn't said. He didn't say, I will speak dark sayings. No, if he speaks dark sayings, that means that he is without understanding.

He said, I will open my mouth in a parable and utter, or I will explain, or I will make clear the dark sayings. I will answer your questions. So that means in Matthew 13, Jesus was also answering the questions. Unto you it is given to know. Unto them it is not. It is to them in a mystery. It's a question in their heart. Because seeing they cannot see, hearing, they cannot hear. So if you are to put Psalm 78:2 side by side with Matthew 13, you will call the dark scenes the mysteries, and then you will call the parables exactly what they are, parables, which is the word Marshal. Mashal means an illustration. Numbers 23, verse 7, Number 23, verse 7, number 23, verse 18, numbers 24, verse 3, numbers 24, 15, numbers 24, 20, numbers 24, 21 and 23.

And Deuteronomy, chapter 28, verse 37, I will mention by the side Proverbs 1:6 will come there. Ecclesiastes 1:7. So Ecclesiastes equally is a book of illustrations. Well, sorry, 117. I gave my heart to know Wisdom to know madness and folly. I passed. This is the spirit of verse. So it's a book of Proverbs. Now, the word parabola. I'm going back to the Greek Now I'm just oscillating. It has 50 connotations or 50 references in new Testament Greek. Now, I want you to pay attention to something. Hebrews 9. 9. Hebrews 9, verse 9. This is the temple, okay? In description. Hebrews 9. 9. I'll give you the first one. Hebrews 9. One says the first covenant also had ordinances of divine service and a worldly sanctuary. A worldly sanctuary? A worldly sanctuary. That is, you are interpreting divine things in a worldly way.

Look at verse nine. Look at what he calls the first tabernacle. It says it was a parable. That's the word figure there. It was a parable for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him, that did the service perfect according to conscience. So now if. Therefore you know that the parable of the sower was to point you to something else. So you are not supposed to start to put seed in the ground. You are just supposed to see how a spiritual principle works using a natural phenomenon. It says that first tabernacle is a parable. In other words, there is an intended goal, an intended lesson, an intended message. So that. That's. I look at that. I mean, you look at four books of the Bible, and they are critical books. Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy.

It says what you will see there in their service, in the worldliness of their service. And don't forget that we said that they picked so, just like Jesus will go to. So what Moses has done is not new. Jesus will go to agriculture. Pick an illustration. He will go to trade and commerce. Pick an illustration. He will go to even slavery. Pick an illustration. He will go to the justice system. Pick an illustration. It will be therefore unwise on my part to think he's either teaching a Greek or is teaching commerce when it is an illustration of a message. So therefore, the writer of Hebrews is telling us that those four books, that worldly sanctuary which permeated their worship of God, if you allow me to use that phrase, was a parable.

So if you understand a parable, then you ought to understand what Moses was equally doing. Now, assuming he stopped there. He didn't. Therefore, Hebrews 11, Verse 19. That is the offering of Isaac, accounting that God was able to raise him up even from the dead. He received him in a parable. He received Isaac In a parable. So Mount Moriah becomes an illustration, which means that parables did not start in the era of Exodus. It started even in Genesis. Now, let me. Now let's be careful. The concept of a parable will be grammar, right? Come on, that grammar. Come on, I'm asking a question. That's grammar. So that means he's referring to the grammar of the Bible. Which means that a very key component of your emnotic is to understand the employment of parables. So parables were heavily used. Never forget a parable.

A parable is to use a true life story or a story that you can relate with. So you can't expect a parable to give you all the details of agriculture, all the details, that is why was there a flood in the world time of Noah? Yes. What manner of flood? You cannot tell. But the flood of Noah and God's salvation plan to save Noah from the flood became a parable of Christ work and his finished work. And that dovetails into other instances. So the concept of parables did not start with Jesus. Jesus simply taught how Moses taught. So what is the reason for a parable? A parable is meant to answer the question. Jesus told us why he used parables in Matthew 13, verse 12, 13, 14, 15, quoting Isaiah 6, 9, and all of that.

That in their heart they did not believe, seeing they couldn't see. So the background of Genesis once again is an unbelieving world. An unbelieving world. The background of the parables of Jesus, an unbelieving world. Where lies the mystery. So parables are meant to undo the mysteries. Of course, in the Greek colotilion, it means to cross over from the spiritual to the natural, almost to say, to meet people at their level of understanding. Again, Psalm 78 says, I will open up my mouth to utter parables of dark sayings from old. Now when you say from old there which we'll look at, it means from the beginning, from before. Now at the beginning, Proverbs 1, 6. So henceforth the book of Proverbs and the book of Ecclesiastes are books that contain messages that are not the illustrations used. Rather, the illustrations are pointers.

Where a message of injustice been. For example, the book of Proverbs has sarcasm where you mock injustice. Ecclesiastes also mocks vanity. Money answers all things. It's not telling you how important money is. He telling you how vain it is. Say somebody is drinking wine, Mary says, and he says that all of this will still go back to the pit. Says, but money answers all this that money will get you all of this. They said, what is the end of that commandment to fear God. So. But when you are careless, you go to the money part where he talks about there was a. There was a wise man. I've seen preachers use that there was a wise man. You know, his voice was not heard because he was poor. The rich man answers roughly.

And rather than understand the mockery and the sarcasm of the embedded system of injustice that the writer is written about, you and I will take it literally. Not you and I now a careless preacher, and begin to preach financial wealth. Meanwhile, Ecclesiastes ends by saying, without the fear of God, without the knowledge of the Savior, everything is vain. So Proverbs, for example, one will tell you in verse three that these are the words of justice, judgment and equity. In other words, the writer of Proverbs wants us to see that there is, of course, equity and justice will come to the concept that we explore from Saturday, the Sedakah or the Diako Sunni. That is rightly what should have been done, what it ought to have been, righteousness.

So the writer of Proverbs will be mocking injustice, unrighteousness, which is prevalent, and he will be giving illustrations. He says, a wise man will hear and will increase learning. A man of understanding will attend unto wise counsel. I think a lot of people have not been wise with this book. Then he says in verse six, to understand a proverb or say a parable, verse one says, the parables of Solomon, the son of David. So now every king in Israel is a teacher of the law. So the parables are the illustrations of him teaching the laws of the law of Moses, which is the law of Genesis. So he will use my when he says my son, for example, that is spiritual growth today to us. But when he says my son, that is how the attend to my words.

Incline your ear to my sayings. Can we say that he's giving illustrations on how the oracles of God were passed down to generations? My son, Father, Son. Again, the book of Proverbs opens us to how that was done. Then he says in verse six, the interpretation, the words of the wise and their dark saints. Where is the dark saying? It is darkened in the heart of a fool. Cancel is dark in the heart of a fool. So he says in verse seven, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom. So the key to understanding it is the fear of God. Or you call it faith in Christ. If you miss this intro to Proverbs, you are going to Use it for your own good, Satan. As Ecclesiastes.

So, which means that just like Jesus, the book of Genesis, as I have seen in Hebrews 11:19, will have the message and the illustration of the message. The message and the illustration of the message or illustrations of the message. Go back again to Matthew 13. It says, this is kept secret. I will now look at the interpretation of Psalm 78, verse 2. You know, it says as of old. Okay, look at the interpretation in Greek. That is, this is the Greek rendering of Psalm 78, verse 2. I will utter things. That's the B part. I will open my mouth in illustrations and I will explain things which have been kept secret. That's the mousterion, the word crypto, kept secret since the foundation of the world. Look at Psalm 78. Two from old. The word old is the word qwedem, quedem.

And quedem is now interpreted to us to mean from the foundation of the world. A phrase you will see. And it's the word katabole. Cosmos. Cosmos means cosmopolitan. From the arrangement of things. Katabole means the beginning, Matthew 25:34, Luke 11:50, and John 17:4. The glory that I had with thee before the world was before. Verse 5. Sorry. Before the world was. Now notice what he's talking, not talking about before the book of Genesis. If it says before the book of Genesis, then this statement cannot be verified. It has to be verified. For it to be verified, it must be Genesis. So Genesis is the foundation of the cosmos.

So when you read from the foundation of the world, it means from the book of Genesis in Ephesians 1, verse 4, chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, Ephesians 1:4, or from Genesis, Hebrews 4:3. The works were finished from the book of Genesis, from the foundation of the world, Hebrews 9:26. That one had ages both since the foundation of the cosmos, the arrangement of things. And now once again, in the end of time. That's what world time. While the first word world has to do with arrangement of things, one is the time, the ages, as he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself. Hebrews 11:11. I want you to observe this through faith. Also Sarah received strength to conceive that's the word catabole, seed or Genesis. So the parables of Jesus, where he uses seed after its kind.

That's no seed. Sorry. And then you have the Genesis word 11 after his kind, Genesis 3, 15, 16, the seed of the woman. And then you have Abraham to your seed. And so when you Seed. It connotes a new beginning, a genesis. A genesis, A conception. So Jesus uses the parable of the Sower to show call it a new Exodus, a new tabernacle, just something new conception. First Peter 1:20, the lamb slain. Sorry, that's verse 19. Says, who really was ordained before the foundation of the world was manifested in these last times? For you look at that. It was ordained Genesis. So from the book of Genesis, the death of Jesus was conceived. That's what he's saying. Then Revelation 13:8, Revelation 17, verse 8. Our friends, you are going to see is First Corinthians 2:7 Photona neon. Proton. A neon. Ordained before the world.