So now in this instance we must figure out what is the communication here. Ezekiel 20 and verse 39. I want us to read this together so you understand the figures of speech. Let's go as for you. Oh, let's go as for you, O house of Israel. Thus saith the Lord God, go ye and serve you everyone. What? And hereafter also be not hearing unto me, but polluting my holy name. No more with your gifts, but with your idols. Now that's sarcasm, right? Huh? Come on. Is that sarcasm? Exactly. So God didn't give them bad law so that they would die. He simply saying, I've allowed you to do what you want to do. Amos 4:4. Another sarcastic statement. Come to Bethel. Let's take it. Amos 4. 4. Let's read it together. Let's go, come to Bethel. Amos 4:4, are you there?

Let's go, come to Bethel and transgress and gigal multiply transgression and bring your sacrifices every morning and your tithe. This is sarcasm is like let the weak say I'm Strong is sarcastic First Kings 22. And verse 15. And he came to the king, and the king said unto him, micaiah, shall we go against Ramoth, Gilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And he answered, go and prosper, for the Lord shall deliver it to the hand of the king. You know, he was teasing him. So we have sarcasm, therefore we need to know what it is and what it ought to be. Again, that's another way to study Scripture. We'll take it gradually like that, because I want us to explore all those stories one by one. And we must pay attention to the details.

The fact that something is done and God's name is mentioned and even said God said, doesn't mean you should not think through what was said. You must read the entire story. When we get to Kings and Chronicles, you see why the two were permitted. You will see why you have to read them together so that the context of statements and events can be very clear. Who is following this? This morning? Very well. So the Bible is not something you can read. Can you see the error of rhema? Can you see it when you just pick scriptures? And also the fact that those scriptures were broken into verses have not helped us either, because naturally you would have even seen that place at all. You'll have been forced to read it from the very outset. So did God endorse slavery? Of course not.

But when men created slavery, did God, through Moses, I think you understand what that means, told them how to regulate slavery? Yes. He didn't start it either way. So a legislation to make things fair and just, of course it wouldn't be perfect, was allowed. Did God start a criminal justice system? No, he didn't. Men were doing that themselves. Sin entered into the world. But did he try to intervene? Yes, gradually and incrementally, till we go to Jesus. And he said, you know what, if they slap you at your right cheek, turn the other one. What? Yes, love your neighbor as yourself. This fulfills the entire prophets and the law and the prophets. The beginning, it was not so. Which beginning again? You know. So you can't find slavery at the beginning. You can't find what you call misogynism at the beginning.

You can't find chauvinism of any sort at the beginning. You can't find any domination at the beginning. You can't even find human government at the beginning, even though there was government. And we said yesterday during the book of Luke that the Bible teaching of government is a theocracy. Hope you remember that. It's not a democracy either. Is it aristocracy or Plutocracy or any of those things. Neither is it anarchy. Anarchy is everybody did as it is right in their eye. Georgia 17 says, It's a hateocracy where God gives you his word and then we do his word. Look at 1 Corinthians 7 and just close on this. So therefore, let's. Before we get that we said that the historical. Proper historical context or proper theological context. Sorry for that. Proper theological context of scripture. Genesis 1 and 2, right?

Don't ever forget what I just said. Now, the proper theological context of scripture is Genesis 1 and 2, the consequence of Genesis 3, then the first event of Genesis 4. If that is not strong in your understanding, you will misread the entire Bible. Genesis 1 and 2 ideal, Genesis 3, mass intervention, Genesis 4, manifestation of what he had done. Then you read the Exodus story and all of that. And then historical context of their day. In First Corinthians 7, despite Paul, you know, teaching on slaves, obey masters. You know your masters. Look at First Corinthians 7, I also mentioned the fact that there's an instruction about slavery does not mean that God endorses it. But what can you do? It's just like if we teach today, now, and we say, Just like Romans 13, Paul says, Obey those who are in authority.

God didn't create it in that context, you know, in the sense of, okay, they said, do this. And so if the government, for example, tells us that. I was watching Pastor Craig Hagin, was he early this morning when he spoke to the church. And he said, and I love the way he said it, he said, look, we believe in divine healing. We are not afraid of any known virus. He said. But he said, because of the regulations the government has given to us, if you come to church, your shots are not going to hug you. They're not going to shake you. You know, they are going to greet you in the kind of way when you come, you will see it. That's the way he said it. Even world rulers are now doing this.

I like this, you know, and they now said that right now they've not stopped us from services and meeting. So, however, if it comes to the point that they will give us a number that cannot meet together, we'll have to stop the service and say we have to, you know, do not say God said no, but neither must you do nothing about it. Do you get it? It won't make sense for all of us because we can't but gather for them to now come one day and pack all of us in One box and say it also not make any kind of sense. So in other words, God will have to make the he has always been and he has done well so far. Amen. With what? The things that we have created for ourselves. God has been. He has been fine.

He has walked through different laws. I mean if you can walk through the age where people were that brutish and still be God, then he is God of all. You know, you look at it and then I would rather see the way God wazzle through and human wicked weaknesses and cruelties and all of that. So since something in scripture doesn't endorse it, you'd be very unfair not to read the entire account to know what it is. Romans 5, 12, 14 Again, sin was in the world and death came by sin. So 1st Corinthians 7. The first thing he says in verse 20, Paul says, Let every man abide in the same calling where he was called. Art thou being a servant? Care not for it. But he knows that if you are, if you're a servant, it's fine. They say, slavery.

Then he says, for if you mayest be made free, use it rather. That is if I like the way some Greek translations put it, or maybe some modern translations say, do all you can to free yourself via industry can go and you know, network somebody get out of it. Do all you can to come out of it. In other words, you know, there's something I'm going to teach about achievements that's sometimes next month. I call it the good, the bad and the ugly achievements. Is it wrong to have achievements? No, it's not. But there's the good part of it. There's a bad part of and there's the ugly side to it. And sometimes when you highlight the ugly side, people think, oh, you don't want people to achieve. No, you must state the facts.

There's the bad side, there's a good part of it, and there's the ugly part. And you know, that is where God's word regulates us. God won't choose your career for you because if you start looking at the godliness of career, you just be preaching the gospel of career. I mean, I don't know how a lawyer will not believe in the grace of God. Those of you who are lawyers here, try and raise your hand and object. I don't know how you will not say, see, Jesus died for our sins. A lawyer believes that more than any other person or doctors or you are in the military. How could you want to preach God love everybody including the person you shot at war. Okay, should Christians not be soldiers? In fact right now somebody was showing me a video.

He was so happy that this song by Sinach. I know who I am, I know who God says the U.S. army, they were singing it. So I said, but are they not going to kill people? He said, no, that is one, that's their job. I said, you know a fellow was, I remember a year like that. I mean somebody, one of my friends, not a fellow. I mean we used to be crazy. Then there's this thing done by redeemed Christian church of God. Lekki98 so we now found out that Nigerian beau's was one of his sponsors. Okay, you don't believe you take alcohol, but the proceed of alcohol is paying tight and all these things. No, we're being very dishonest and that's not fair. And I mean it's not fair, but it's just a fact.

So just know that human systems are messed up already. We try to beautify them but you know, and that's why you can't come to church and be glorifying human achievements at the end of the day. Because they say the bottom of wealth has egme. What's the Greek word of that man? That's why Jesus in his days, you find out that did he hate the rich? What did they do for himself? How now they say if it's impossible for me, it's possible for God. How you know, look at Paul. Because it's a human system. Wealth is human systems. And by the time we look at it and investigate it, we'll find something, query it. Because wealth oftentimes doesn't come without oppression. I was telling somebody, you work in an oil company, me. Do you know the history of oil exploration in Nigeria?

Do you know how many people were wiped off to have those sites? Do you know how they are pushing? But I don't know. You don't know? You don't know. Now you do resign, you go to America and make money. Do you know, do you know who they drove out of that land? So if you have money, if you get money, hide yourself. Not if you don't get money. So Paul says, do all you can get out of it. But look at the next thing he says. For he that is called in the Lord, being a servant is the lost free man. Likewise either is called being free is the lost servant. He said, look, it has nothing to do with who you are in Christ, but you see in the world you are who you are. In the world. You get it.

However, if you can get yourself out of it I. It's very simple. What he's saying is, do it. Paul doesn't even tell you how to use your brain. Go for seminars, network, know people, have mentors. Very simple. Do. But know that even if you now become a master, you are still the Lord's servant. Do you understand? If you are a man servant, you are still free in Christ. As simple as that. So there's no connection between what I am in the world and who I am in Christ. Amen. So God hasn't endorsed it, but he has just had to make do with it. I'll see you again in 10 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/