Then of his concubine, his wife by his son, the death of his children without him. You know, basically things that God foresaw will happen. And he told him so. Oftentimes when a person prophesies in the Hebrew language, it is said that he brought it to pass. When a prophet speaks, it is often wielded the authority of grammar like he did it. Look at Isaiah 6, 9, 10. I need you to keep going back to that. Because it's the issue of unbelief. And God's active verb, even though it is passive. Jeremiah 1:10, Ezekiel 43, 3, Matthew 10, 34, 36 simply meant David, you have sown something horrible into your household. Just like Adam sowed a wrong seed. And he says, look, this is what is going to come out of it all sort of evil.

Because everybody knew you went to take somebody's wife, killed the man, and then committed adultery with her. What you have simply done is you have sown a seed into your household. And so all these things will fly across is just foreseeing the consequence of his actions. So oftentimes when you see words like that used in a prophecy, it's because in the Hebrew culture, the prophet will be put in the stead of the person that brought it to pass. So we see it as God's foreknowledge or foreseeing the consequence of an action. Look at Hosea 8, 7. But they that have sown the wind, they shall reap the whirlwind. It hath no stalk, the bird shall yield no meal. If it so yield, the stranger shall swallow it up. That's exactly what God is telling David.

Again, we'll keep going back to Genesis 2 and 3 where we see cause and effect, because in the day of Job that was what God told him. Go to the beginning and see where sin and death came from. See where evil came from. Thus the Genesis principle of interpreting all events afterwards is. Is critical. It means that all the actors of evil from the beginning are being conscripted in idioms. Seeing the devil, man, God will now be brought in idioms. But at the beginning it was clear what had happened. One of the key areas that you as a teacher must do your best to explain is the area of Pharaoh's hardening of the heart. You must take time to explain it. Because in fact I first heard that story as God showing his power.

I know the way Romans 9 now puts it about the potter and the clay. That's why it's so great. Salvation 4 Now and other teachings. We took time to explain it. This is where the text is from. You know, I went to Jeremiah to show you Isaiah. This is where the text is from. So let us read it together. When Paul was writing this, his audience had this verse. They had this text, let's see it together. So that nobody at the back of his mind even till today people who have been taught Bible interpretation, the word Christ is of all things because these areas are still there in their minds. If those things are not clarified, it will still be present. So Pharaoh's hardening of heart has to be explained.

God did not act in such a way that he made Pharaoh's actions hardened more than he spoke to him is Pharaoh's actions towards God. That means God hardened his heart, not God's actions towards Pharaoh. But didn't God say before he did it because he's God, he foreknew it. If he can foreknew what happened to Adam and Eve, he foreknows all actions. So the Calvinist theology, which doesn't make these distinctions, either we're looking at Pharaoh or the issue with Joseph 2nd Samuel has come across as fatalism. And therefore you and I can't handle it with kid gloves. Also much of. And I discovered this one time like that I was talking to some reformed guys. This was 2007. Every time we want to talk about evil spirit, they didn't want us to talk about it. I said, why?

If I remember one of the conversations, one guy said, people talk about prayer, they got prayer about prayer about prayer about prayer. That okay, if Elijah did not pray, he would still have reigned. I said I don't get that. I don't explain that to me that the prayer part is not as important as God wanted it to happen. Because the moment you start talking like that, there are certain things that will become fables in Scripture. What about sin? In fact, the guy said, well, when it comes to casting of demons, like he really thinks that demons are there to carry out something God intends that we don't know. I said no. So that means that the subject of evil spirits has to be explained. Evil spirits, demons. So therefore the Hebrew culture. Leaves us with no choice but to understand its idioms.

Permission from causation must be clear. How do I detect it Read the whole story. The moment I detect disobedience, what I have is permission, not causation. The moment I detect violation of laws, that's what it is. Let's look at a simple thing. Maybe you are making a road. Then you say, no entrance. This. Let me give. Let me. Let me see. Okay. There's a manhole in the road as a danger. And so a guy goes ahead and say, danger. Your word danger means you will fall into the hole. The guy goes ahead and then he enters into the hole. Hebrew will say, let's say God said it. God puts the man in the hole. You say, how? By warning him not to go there. What is strange? Communication.

But by the time I look at the story and say, God put a sign board on the hole and the man drove there, I'll know. Okay? What he's trying to say is that God warned him about the hole and he entered him. They said, but why now? The other angle is, why then didn't God stop him? If God could stop him, then there will be no reason for the warning. So are there warnings? Yes. Are there disobedience? If God could stop you, then there's no reason for instructions. The concept of obedience and faith shows you that God could not stop you. We will have to remove obedience and faith from scripture to be able to submit that God does all things. So the idiom, you will be more excited. You say, I warned him about the whole world.

He didn't listen to me and he fell into the hole. The Hebrew language doesn't put God in the background. God pushed him into the hole. But you say, did you see God on his head? The say, no. Did you see him carrying? He said, no. What did you see? God told him not to go there. Now the challenge is that you may think, but then why is he written that way? It's the way they talk. But if you took your time to look at the characterization of the story, you will know that it is an idiomatic expression. Therefore, we must not be indifferent to such words. The language of commission and permission must be clearly stated. So this is important because God has decided to use the men's words to communicate his words.

Therefore, he leaves it to man to put intelligently in his own ways of talking what he has said and what he has done. Once again, it shows you how much of liberty God has given man, such that nobody here has the access to God's language because he has none. What he will use is how he will speak. So my Duty is to also find how you will speak. However, of course, when I say God's language, I just mean the way we communicate. So it is therefore on us to now take that mode of communication, of texts and that world into our own world. Today we will have no excuses whatsoever in how we interpret. So the causative verbs and the permissive verbs dominate the Old Testament.

It can only be solved by reading it in context, identifying every character, and always using the Genesis principle. Always. Because every writer of Scripture refers to history. Moses refers to Genesis, Joshua refers to the five Books, all the judges refer to Moses. Everybody refers back to Genesis. So why are they all referring to Genesis? Because they want you to look at the Genesis principle and you ask me, what is there? God gave his word, man disobeyed, man fell into trouble. That should always guide your interpretation. At no point must you read a text or scripture in isolation. We've already spoken about exegetical teachings. So that means that you can't rely on textual explanation alone. You have to look at the systematic teaching of it you might need.

Now you know, we'll say, out of the amount of two or three witnesses, I advise you, please, if you have 50 witnesses, use them as let it be overwhelming enough. And as a teacher, you must use similar incidences sometimes, if you stick to that story alone, your audience will understand. Go to something else that is similar. So by the time you properly scrub their understanding, they will get you. When you get to the subject, initial. So that duty is such that I must look out for what is permissive. Interestingly, let me add this. Even the best of translations who have tried to change those tenses, sometimes they've created a greater problem without knowing. Rather than say God didn't do it, or God did say he permitted it, that might even bring a bigger problem.

That means he had the capacity for it not to take place. No, it is the language that is permissive, not God. So what is the way out? The way the way out is to simply explain it as an idiom. There is no better way out. An idiom? Simple. Attempting to say no is not actually this attempt. I, I, I, I allowed. Exodus 15:26. I will not allow the g the sickness I put on the upon you. I'm the Lord that healeth thee. Or of course, that context is I am a healer. I will not allow. Did he ever put sicknesses upon them in his Egypt? No, I will not allow what happened to Egypt to happen to you. You go back to the story. Go back to further references to it. In the Psalms, for example, in Numbers, for example, in Joshua, for example.

Then explain it so quickly. I don't know how quick this is going to be. We want to look at two Hebrew words that oftentimes have not been properly interpreted. Two, two of them. We'll see another two later. Two that have not been properly interpreted. Have you seen a text in the New Testament like this? Let's see one second of Thessalonians, Verse 10. With all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish because they receive not the love of the truth that they might be saved for this cause, God shall send strong delusions that they should believe a lie. God shall send. You know, you say we have a really Old Testament now. You can see our life. God shall send. How do you come out of it? Just read the whole book. You will see the people he's referring to are disobedient.

There are those who do not obey the Gospel. Chapter one, verse eight. So God shall send simply means he just let them be. He couldn't do anything about their choices. So Romans 1:28 32, we use the phrase or more gave up. He gave them up. He gave them up. So we have two words in the Hebrew that requires careful reading. Two words, and I want you to see it. There are major words. Leviticus 26:25, Leviticus, I will bring a sword upon you and shall avenge the coil of my covenant. And when you are gathered together within your cities, I will send pestilence among you. You shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy. So there are two words there.

The first one is Shalach, S H A L, A C H or is also spelled Shala, S H a L A H. And Nathan, N A T, H A N. So the word Nathan, or the word Shala, sorry, is the word to send. The word Nathan is to deliver. From the literal point of view, they look like active causative verbs, but they are not. You will find out that the Old Testament equally has a word. That word that means that is the word Nathan and Shala. They mean to allow. There are three Hebrew words that mean to allow. One of them is yalak, away. To give away Nathan and Shala. Let's look at Nathan. Nathan means to give. In Exodus 3:19, it means to let. It will not let you go. It will not let you go. No, not by a mighty hand.

Exodus 23:13. So it expresses to let, to allow. Now these words signify permission. In Esther 9:13, let it be given to the Jews. It simply Means let it be allowed. Psalm 61 this is more 51. So it's used for permission allowance and it is commonly used for God. It is used to how the punishment of rebellion and disobedience happens to the children of Israel. In the King James, it is used as to give, to grant, to bestow, to offer. In very active tenses. That word can also be extended to consecrate, dedicate, to exchange, to commit, to give over, to deliver up, to yield, to produce, and all of that. Yet these words ought to have been used. These words should be in the permissive tense.