Every time we see these words as God and you see evil, it is God's actions about or around rebellious men. I say that in emphasis. When you see, I will let, I will send. We go to say, I will let. I will do this. You will see it has to do with the rebellion of men. So the King James therefore suffers the use of archaic language where it retains the word Nathan in such a way that it's not different from very archaic language. For example, look at the words I will not suffer you to go. Today we use suffer for something that brings punishment and pain. Whereas suffer simply means allow long. Suffering means to allow for long. So when you see words like that, they require. Like we said, words only have meanings within the sentences where they are used.

Where there is disobedience, God is only the judge and not the executor. Where there is disobedience is only the judge and not the executor. So when we see that word Nathan used, he let where you say I will send. It typically refers to where God did nothing and the men's actions yet took place. Exodus 12:23. I think we read this earlier. 12:23 I will not suffer the destroyer to come into your houses to smite you. That word suffer simply means I won't allow. So Nathan is a permissive verb. In First Kings 22, verse 20 to 23, the Lord had put a lying spirit. Okay, let's start from the Lord said, who shall persuade Ahab that he may go up and fall at Ramoth Gilead? And one said unto this manner another said, on that manner there comfort a spirit.

And stood up before the Lord said, I'll persuade him. And the LORD said unto him, now this conversation, 2nd Kings 22 is similar to Job, where a prologue is used to explain men's actions. There is no conversation. There is no conversation. I will go forth, and I will be a lion spirit in the mouth of all his prophets, and he said, thou shalt persuade them and prevail also. Go forth and do so. Now therefore behold, the Lord hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets. The Lord hath put and has spoken evil concerning thee. The spirit that came forth didn't come from God. It simply is to say it is not the Spirit of God. Simple. The spirit is a lying spirit of itself, not made by God.

In Jeremiah 29:23 we read that yesterday on Sunday because they have committed villainy in Israel and have committed adultery with their neighbors wives and have spoken lying words in thy name, which I have not commanded them. Even I know and I'm a witness, saith the Lord. So if he has said that, what then happened? In 2nd Kings 20:22 the word put there is Nathan. That's in verse 23 I will put a lying spirit. It means allow. I will give over. I will do nothing about a lying spirit being in their mouth. I will do nothing about a lying spirit in their mouth. Or when you see a lying spirit in their mouth, it means I wasn't part of it. So the nascent word used as to put all right should have been rendered differently in today's English.

I will do nothing about or I will not stop or I will not be involved in the lying spirit in their mouth. So of course if you look at the context, Ahab heard the truth from Micaiah and it did not heed to it. So by not hearing the truth from Micaiah the prophet, he hid to a lying spirit you will always see disobedience in the story who told you the serpent? By not heeding to God, you heed to an evil spirit. So God's path there is doing nothing. Just like Romans 1:28 32 or 24:28 he gives over he is not. The one who deceives can add Jeremiah 14:15 Jeremiah 23:32 Jeremiah 29:31 so it simply means I will do nothing about the lying spirit. I will do nothing.

In fact it is more of a verb of exclusion non inclusion Ezekiel 20, verse 24 to 25. Because they had not executed my judgments, but had despised my statutes, I had polluted my servants sabbaths, and their eyes were after their Father's idols. Look at this statement, very strange one I will give them also statutes that were not good judgment whereby they should not live. Ezekiel 20:24 25 I will give them statutes that are not good. How can a statute come from God that is not good? Psalm 19, verse 7 to 8 the law of the Lord is perfect concerning the soul. The testimony of the Lord is pure, making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing in the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. So what then happened in Ezekiel? The contradiction doesn't exist.

It's only grammar. God's commandments are not grievous. First John 5:3. They are pure and holy. Romans 7:12. So the word Nathan is also used there. I gave them over. A version says, I gave them over to worthless customs and laws, which simply means I allowed them be so. The customs and laws were done by them. I only didn't do nothing. Psalm 81:1016. We read that the other day, and you know by the time you read that. Ezekiel, chapter 20, verse 21. Notwithstanding the children of Israel rebelled against me, they walked not in my statutes, neither kept my judgments to do them, which if a man does, he shall even live in them. They polluted my Sabbath when I said, I will pour out my fury upon them to accomplish my anger against them in the wilderness.

22 Wherefore I withdrew my hand and wrought for my namesake that it should not be polluted in the sight of the heathen in whose sight I brought them forth. You will have read that before you go to verse 24, where he says, I will give them laws that are not good. So in disobedience, what God is said to allow is that he was not involved. So it simply meant he didn't put restraint on them and they cast off his restraints. So when men cast off his restraint, God's restraint, it is deemed that God did something. No, look at Leviticus 14:34. Leviticus 13:44. 34. Sorry, 14:34.

The Lord spake unto Moses, saying unto Aaron, saying, when you become into the land of Canaan, which I will give to you for a possession, I will put the plague of leprosy in the house of the land of your possession. I will put the plague of leprosy. The word there is Nathan, Nathan. I will put so let me ask you, who permitted it? God or the man is the man. Oftentimes God is saying it to show us the consequences of our actions. Deuteronomy 7:15. The Lord will take away from thee all sickness and put none of the evil deeds of Egypt which thou knowest upon thee, but will lay them upon all them that hate you. Thee will lay them the word. There again is Nathan. The Nathan which shows that what he's saying basically is this.

I will not do Anything as touching sicknesses upon all them that hate you. That's all he means. Inactivity is made active to show that God is not involved. I think the Wycliffe translation says he just put it very simple. And of course that came before the King James. He just said that thou should know that to all your enemies these sicknesses shall come. He doesn't say I will do anything about it. So when you read those consequences of man's actions and God is mentioned at all is because he did nothing. Or in today's language, he gave them over. He allowed them be. Exodus 12, 23 Psalm 78, 49, 51. It simply means he didn't do it. So when you see the verb Nathan. Nathan is a permissive verb. When at the end of it is disobedience. How you know is there is disobedience.

Disobedience means you rejected God's hand. The second word is the word shelach. S h a a s h, a l, a c, k or s h a l a h. It's often translated as to send, but it has more meanings. Send away, let go, stretch out, let loose. It's a common verb in Hebrew language to send. It has nearly 850 occurrences in a number of those texts. It simply means allow. Allow in a number of those text. Psalm 81, verse 12. So I gave them. Please look at this text. I gave them up onto their own hearts lost and they walked in their own counsel. I gave them up to loosen, to relax, to let go. I gave them up. Shalak. Therefore it is not an occasion. Of course, it's an occasion of effect. That word shalach is used for Noah.

Genesis 8, verse 7 and 8. When Noah sent forth the birds, it actually means he let them go. He let them go. Genesis 8, 7, 8 also Eliezer. Eliezer. Genesis 24:51. Send me away. That's what he said, but it meant let me go. So to send simply means allow, let go. Shalak. Shalak. In 28 where we read the causes of the law, people fail to read the context. Phil28 where you read the curse of the Law, Verse 15. If thou will not hearken to the voice of the Lord your God, if thou will not hearken to the voice of the Lord your God. Look at verse 45. All these curses shall come upon you, shall pursue you, overtake you, because you did not hearken to the voice of the Lord your God. You see that prominent there?

So you will always see disobedience in the context look at verse 20. Whereby you are forsaking me whereby you are forsaking me so you see that it is not oh, whereby I'm doing it, you are forsaking me. In verse 22 says, until you they will pursue you they will do this until you perish. So when you he when you now read, I will send let's look at what I'm saying. The LORD shall smite thee with the consumption the LORD shall How can he do it when you are forsaking him? It simply means he will watch it happen. He will be helpless when it happens. Like we read the other day 1 Chronicles 15:2 if you forsake him, he will forsake you. So Shylock, that is often used for send for do actually means the LORD will just watch.

Jeremy 28:20 I will send upon thee cursing no, it means I will let go. I won't hold the curse. I won't be able to stop it from happening. Deuteronomy 31:16 18. The LORD said unto Moses, behold, thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, and these people will rise up and go a whoring after the God of the senate of the land. That means he's telling you what they will do whither they go to be among them and they will forsake me and break my covenant, which I have made with them. Look at the next verse and my anger shall be skinned against them. I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall be devoured, and many evils and troubles shall befall them.

So they will say in the day and not all these things come upon us, because our God is not amongst us. So when I read Jeremiah 28, what I'm reading is cause and effect. Look at Jeremy 28 again, verse 48 to 50. Therefore thou shalt serve thy enemies, which the LORD shall send against thee. Shalak in hunger, in thirst, in nakedness, in wants of things he shall put a yoke of iron upon thy neck until foot until he had destroyed thee. The LORD shall bring a nation against thee from afar and the end of the earth as swift as the eagle flieth a nation which whose tongue thou shalt not understand a nation of first countenance, which shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young.

So all these things were done by the Babylonians, were done by hostile enemies. Look at 2 Kings 24:2 the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldees, bands of the Syrians, bands of the Moabites, bands of the children of Ammon, and sent them against Judah to destroy it according to the word of the Lord, which is spake by servants of prophets. The LORD did not send them, means the LORD warned you about them, you did not listen, and they came, and the LORD could not help you. So the word Shalach, send, sent, means he allowed he let go. Second Chronicles 36, verse 15 and 17. I read verse 17. Okay, 15. They mocked the messengers of God and despised his words, misused his prophets until the wrath of the God arose against his people, till there was no remedy.

We read that the other day. Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, which slew their young men with a sword in the house of the sanctuary, and had no compassion upon young men, or maiden, or old man, or him that stood for age. He gave them all into his hands. So the prophet is warning. Let's see another one. Ezra 5:12 he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, the Chaldean who destroyed this house and carried the people away. We're looking at the that prediction. 28 How did it come to pass? Nebuchadnezzar is found.