Good morning, everyone. Let's pray. Dear Father, in the name of your Son, Jesus, this morning we once again thank you for the privilege of fellowship. And as we study together, we receive insight, we receive wisdom, we receive accuracy in thought. And together as a church, we behold Jesus Christ, your Son, as he sees us in him, he is glorified and we are edified. Amen. Luke 24. 25 Says, O fools. He said unto them, O fools. And slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounds to them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning Himself.

Obviously this is what you can call both the exegetical explanation of Scripture, but in a wider sense the systematic theology, that is the culture of taking scriptures in a wholesale fashion. And that key, while Simonet can sometimes be useful, where you just, you know what the proper Bible study is when we study it within the context of the entire Bible. I think we saw that already. Now, I was going to say something. I'll just give a head start on this.

The concept of the law of Moses or Moses in his law, we look at Matthew 5, where again Jesus, the sermon, depending on how you look at how Matthew has done it, start from chapter 5, verse 2 or 3, through to chapter 7, verse 28 and 29, that ended up with the parable of the house on the rock and the house on the sand. If you observe Jesus again in this concept, Matthew 5, 7, he goes through the Scriptures, whether it's the law, the Psalms and the prophets, everything is found there. I mean, all themes of the Old Testament are scattered within this single sermon. And so in verse 28 we astonished at his didache, which is his explanation of the Old Testament, because he spoke as one that had authority.

But as a phrase in chapter five, you have heard of them of the old time. And now I say unto you, something we are going to tackle clinically as best as we can. Not today, obviously after today, that's the next time you come around. And after notice that if Jesus in my first thinking, I'll say, well, he's correcting an impression, he's changing a view. And that suffices because he's quoting the Old Testament text. But would there not lie a contradiction if in chapter five of Matthew he's saying, you have heard, now I say unto you, then the same person emerges in Luke 24, 25, 27, and now tells you the things concerning himself. So which means that within the Same books of Moses, he is validating it, you know, in that sense. And then those same books validate him.

So there is nowhere, there is a contradiction. We've said that before, that what we have is an explanation. So we need to look at the phrase, you have heard of them of the old time. Now I say unto you, is it a contrast? Is it a further explanation? Or is it a corroboration? Because it can be three of any one of the three is either he is contrasting. If he does, that will imply that they were either not right or not totally right or wrong altogether. If he's contrasting, if he is corroborating, that means they are saying the same thing. Which means that when he says love your neighbor, hate your enemy, Matthew 5:43, then he says, love your enemy, that cannot be a corroboration. That looks like a contrast. So we are faced with either a contrast, a corroboration, or it's wrong altogether.

And these are issues you can't afford to gloss over. You must answer the question. And we will do that. But it's quite a bigger picture because we want to look at something else from what we're studying. So in your mind, don't forget, you know, you have to be calculated. Is it a contrast? And not the implication of a contrast, Is it a corroboration? Which I said whole lot of landmines. I've already given you one that can be a corroboration, except where you don't give what was in the old time a literal meaning. Then you say, well, what he's saying is that love your neighbor, hate your enemy. That then the context of what is the enemy is the flesh. And then you go all of that. So that could be corroboration, like I said, that can present itself that way.

The third is outrightly wrong. That is, look, whatever you have heard is wrong, I'm correcting it. Now the three can suffice. If, for example, I say that you have heard of the old time based on the crowd, based on the audience and all of that. So those are questions that we'll have to answer. But Luke doesn't give us that thinking because Luke simply says he expounded unto them in all the Scriptures the things concerning himself. That is the dire menu. And we said that there is no way, therefore, that you can do a proper coincide study of Scriptures without understanding the grammatical connotation. And I said this, and I'll remind you that just the same way if you Now I remember, I went to do this Inquiry for someone about studying in Germany.

And then they said to me, the people that were putting together the educational program, they said, there must be a compulsory six months or so where you will learn Germany or German language. And then I said, why? They said, because their school is in German language. Now, the implication of what I said is the same way you want to read a literature that was originally in the Hebrew language, so there's no way you can understand what they are. It's not just typically, just having a dictionary that, okay, the Greek word of the Hebrew word of the word create is bara. That's all to it. No, language is not just the face value, use of words alone, but the usages, the context, sometimes the history behind the use of words and the kind of grammar that is laden in such a society.

So we said, da menu has to do with language. Da menu has to do with also the audience, the context, the people, and of course, theology. Eventually you land at theology. So therefore that drove us to understand the concept again of the Logos. We said, did the Logos emerge from the Greek mythology where it is believed that John, which was almost 60 years after Jesus rose from the dead, where he wrote from? And we said it couldn't because there was a background Old Testament phrase called the daba, which, you know, because we don't have the tools this morning, I believe in subsequent times I will probably try to show you that there is also. You know, normally when you put in. In any language, the construction of a sentence matters a lot. You have the normative case or you have the subject.

When you look at the text, what is subject matter? What is the, you know, a couple of other things like that, the syntax and all that. So if you look at the Old Testament writings, there was a way it was framed that you will see a Logos concept. And I showed you that in Psalm 36, verse 9. For with thee is the fountain of life. In thy light we see light. In thy light, we see light. So there is the. In the light we see light. And this is the psalmist basically saying that we have a background to what we are saying. David, here we have a background to whatever we are saying. It is in this light that we have light, showing you a consistency of how things are submitted in the Old Testament. In the light we see light.

Now look at Nehemiah. Nehemiah, chapter 8, Where again we are faced with the need to put forth an understanding. Nehemiah, chapter 8, verse 7. It causes people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place, verse 8 now says, so they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. Now, if you put that side by side with Luke 24, you will see that means that at the back of what Luke was writing was Nehemiah 8. We have checked a few of the words there, but let's look at another one. When he says he gave sense, the word sense is the word shekel. It means understanding, And it's used for insight thinking. It has 16 references in the Old Testament. First Samuel 25:3, for example, Ezra 8, 18.

Now, Ezra is important because Ezra is in view here. Ezra 8:18. It brought us a man of understanding. Psalm 111, verse 10. A good understanding. Proverbs 3, 4. Thou shalt find and good understanding sight of God and man. So now put that, as you know, when you look at Luke 24:40. Oh, sorry, I said 25. Luke 24:45, he opened in their understanding that they might understand the Scripture. So the first one understanding there is nohus, which can be translated of this word here, shekel, that they might understand. Suin Emmy is the word we also explored there in Nehemiah 88. So that means that eventually Jesus is the teacher of the law. That's strange, because we have that phrase teacher of the law, nomos the daskalos, used many times in an opposite contrast form.

But if we again come to know that the teacher that Jesus teaching, he taught from the law, and then we also know that the apostles did that, we must also be very careful of that phrase teacher of the law. So the question that will come out is, what then were they really doing? What was the point whilst we are here having the language barrier of saying, oh, okay, we are not Jews, so we are not Hebrews, so we need to understand the language. But what if these are already Hebrews? So what then lies again the mixture? A lot of things will come to play that the writer Moses was in between two worlds. The language and the culture with which Genesis happened, not written happened.

And then the language and the culture that was prevalent in the world when he wrote it, and that is when they were in Egypt. So therefore he will have to interplay between Ibrahism and the Egyptian mode of education. Use symbols here to explain phrases here. He will use practices here to explain statements there. So it's between two worlds. It's like when you say Jesus Christ is Lord, then the Jew hears you. He knows that you are Talking about the Old Testament, Adonai, the Old Testament, Elohim, Yahweh, and who is the Messiah. And then the Son of God will refer to that embodiment of God's promise. Well, look at that phrase Son of God again.

But when you talk in the Gentile community, what they are saying is that, oh, you mean that Caesar is not Christ, Caesar is not the Son, Caesar is not Lord, and who is now the Lord? So you are talking about a noble, a king, somebody who has conquered a territory, a sota, where you have soteriology. So, but you see, the unifier in the two contexts is the fact that in those two instances is the fact that they both will mean the same thing, of course, in a different world. So Moses therefore will face that. And so the teachers of the law will have to be able to bridge the gap for the audience. So it leads us to certain things.

For example, in Matthew 13:34 to 35, where you have the phrase mystery used earlier on in verse 11, then Matthew summarizes it this way. He says that all these things spake Jesus to the multitude in parables, and without a parable spake he not unto them. So you have the word paraboli, then in verse 35, that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet saying, I will open my mouth in parables. I will utter things which were kept secret from the function of the world. Now this is where we miss it. Now, in today's language, when we say Proverbs will be wise sayings, you know, the elders and proverbial saints. Yes.

While that is very close to how the Old Testament writes the same thought this, the word parable here is the same Greek word for the book, the title of the book of Proverbs. So which means that I will see Proverbs, the book of Proverbs, and the parables of Jesus carrying the same weight. What it means is they are both illustrative. The parabola is an illustration. But that's not even the core issue here. The core issue here is that he now calls quote a Psalm 78 and verse 2, Psalm 78 and verse 2. We said the earlier. I was talking about the daba. That's Psalm 33, verse 6. How you know you have the words in there? We'll do all that work for you, you. But that will be written form.