All right, Luke 24:25. And he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin that? Moses and all the prophets, he expounded them in all the scriptures and things concerned himself. Now I want you to pay attention to the subject of Christ's sufferings. Why would is eminotic be the Christ suffered? I want you to see the Genesis again. After God spoke to man, and then he gives him what you can call a statement that foretells right, Genesis 2, 16, 17. Then upon the sin of Adam, there and Eve, God begins to lament or he exclaims. That's a critical part of theology, that God exclaims. What have you done? Who did you do this to?

The rhetoric shows you a critical element of God's wrath. What have you done? Who told you so? That means that judgment vis a vis justice in the utterances of God is painful. That is, it shows pain, it shows sadness. If you look at the four Gospels, Jesus lamented over unbelief, lamented over wickedness. You see, you know that lamentation. So whilst the Hebrew language will seek to present it almost like anger, it is not anger. It is lament, grief. Genesis 6 and 2, where he grieves over the man he has created. 6 And 3, sorry, my spirit shall not always strive with men for his flesh. Then Genesis 6 and 5, he saw the thoughts were continually evil. That's grieving. So it will culminate eventually when, obviously when Adam sinned and Eve and when Cain killed Abel.

And you see, it culminates to the death of Jesus, the sufferings of Christ, where he cries on the cross, My God, why have you abandoned me? Of course, that is rhetoric. It's like, why did you abandon me to the hands of these people? A lamentation, as it were. Looking at the. Of course, again you look at the resurrection. It says, if this cup will pass over me, the cup of wrath and his crying. And all this is showing is defining for us the utterances of God's judgment and justice when it comes to evil. In the entire Old Testament. So we have said that our use of words must first be located in that world. We mustn't become creative.

So when we say blessed from Genesis, which we have read through and through, it is to speak of something well done, something done well, something of courtesy, happy. And the epistles followed the same pattern. So it's not a Now definitely you will find parables of Maybe increase in natural things used to speak of the blessedness that is not natural. So that is a secondary application, which is again from what we said earlier in the first session, that to have seen it falsely. That's the Old Testament. Writings as a parable is key. That is, these things are written in an illustrative format. Nehmah, chapter eight again, verse eight and seven. Nehemiah 8 Cause the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place, verse 8.

So they read in the book of the law distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. They made them understand it. So this is the Luke 24:45 narrative. Now again, Joshua 1:8. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. Would that Joshua 1:8 involve Genesis? Yes, I will say it's an instruction for ministry to deal wisely, to take the land, the inheritance, and so on and so forth. So the concept of a father and his son was where we landed all the time. We said, you can't explain the father and son without Abraham. Abraham, like in Moses narrative, replacing Adam. Just take Genesis 1:26, 28 vis a vis Genesis 12, 3, 2 and 3, And Genesis. 22, Verse 17 and 18. And you will see that of course you have in the background.

You could just add this to Genesis 9, 1 and 26, Noah. So you have the. You know, Noah's children too were blessed, you know, but the issue of Abraham was that this was a guy, an old guy, stricken in age. He didn't have a child. His wife, same thing. And this is the perfect illustration of what God will do to sinful man. And we said that now, of course, there's a miracle there, because the birth of Isaac is a miracle. And the conception of Isaac by Sarah is a miracle. But the miracle is a parable. The miracle is not the end product. The end product is the inheritance. So when we look at father and son, a couple of things must be found in the background. You know, we all say, well, God was not a father in the Old Testament.

No, no, not so. Look at Genesis 5. So when you have image, two Hebrew words we'll probably explore shortly. When you have image and likeness, Genesis 5. This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created Adam in the likeness of God made he him. Male and female created them, he blessed them and called them Adam or mankind, in the day where they were created. Of course, you know that the word day is used again by Moses to talk about activities, events. And that now is what The New Testament will call world aion, last days, Emiras an event within a period. Emeras, onion activities, ages, cosmos, world, the way things are arranged, just synonyms of each other, but a bit of distinction. So you have there.

So when you have seventh day is because, you know, this is when we talk about the 8th is new beginning, 7th number perfection. They are actually Jewish symbols, I'm sorry, Egyptian symbols. So you are to be using them today is idol worship. I think we saw that Galatians 4. Now, why do you still observe this? You know as though you are still under those elements of the world? Because when they were in Egypt, they were under the elements of the world. And so those were the symbolisms that Moses uses to teach them the law that was in Genesis. So those phrases are actually idolatry. So when it says the seventh day, which is called the Sabbath, you discover that in the book of Genesis there was no special day, nor with any of the patriarchs.

It was a Moses emnotic to say, at last God has finished what he said. And when he has fulfilled his promise, given you his spirit, made you his son, you will rest in it. So when he says that, what's the best illustration he will use the calendar of Egypt of his day. What does the seventh represent? What's the day afterwards? And all of that. So Jesus, bringing it in his own world, says, on the Sabbath, would you not rescue animal? That, yes, we can. The Lord of the Sabbath hears the Sabbath was made for man and not man for the Sabbath. The essence of the Sabbath is man. The reason why Moses gave you that day, it was because of man. So those are just underlining emnotic to see that the issue is man.

One thing we said the other day is what we call God's word is man's language or is in man's language. So if I don't cross the barrier of man's language, I may not get into God's word. So this leads us to chapter five again we're there. Verse three. Adam lived 130 years and begat a son in his own likeness after his image. So in his likeness begat his son in likeness and image already presents to you a parable of God as the father. So Genesis 1:26, 28. He blessed them multiplied. Pay attention, please. Genesis 1:11. The seed after his kind. Genesis 3:16, 15. The seed of the woman, the seed of man. Then I will bless thee and thy seed. So put that together, the seed will be in his likeness after the image.

We said earlier that a Parable would not be perfect, but a parable will have a lesson or two that drives home the message. So just like we don't want to use the parables of Jesus as agriculture. Agriculture, pardon me, agriculture is a very short form in Nigeria. But therefore we will not use the history as just history. It has to be theology. The same way we mentioned Isaac and Jacob had Esau. And yet contrast to show you, it's by grace, not of walks. Romans 9, Verse 9. I knew I didn't get that text right the appointed time. I didn't get the text right in Genesis 18:10 I will turn to thee according to the time of thy life. Verse 14. At the time appointed. So please change that narrative. Of course, the other one is secret.

But then the appointed time, the fullness of time. Romans 9. At the time I will come and Sarah will have a child, a son. And not only this, look at the background that Paul gives to it. That is verse eight. They which are the children of the flesh, they are not the children of God. For the children of the promise are counted for the seed. Are counted for what? The seed. Genesis 1:11, Genesis 1:26, 28, Genesis 5:3, the background and Genesis 12:2. This is the word of promise that this time will I come and Sarah will have a son, and only this.

But when Rebekah also had conceived by word, even by her father Isaac, for the children being not yet born, having done not any good or evil, but that the purpose of God according to election might stand not of works, but of him that calleth. He says, the elder shall serve the younger. He says, jacob, have I loved Esau have I hated talking about preference. So Moses therefore uses these stories to illustrate the grace of God. So the blessedness of Jacob is his faith in God and not the fact that he swindled his dad, I thought, that's clear. And it has nothing to do with material possession, as you are going to see. Ishmael was equally materially well, same as Cain, same as Ishmael, Jacob, Esau. So the blessedness is something we'll explore trusting God on Saturday.

That we look at what in today's theology we call being justified by faith, righteousness through faith. And we don't want to live in that thin line explanation of the just like, okay, you are guilty now, you are no longer guilty. We want to see something broader in the way the Bible teaches it. So the fatherhood of God is embedded in the Genesis account and in the Exodus narrative. Israel is my son, my firstborn. So in theology you must. You will see why. The incarnation of Jesus shows that Yahweh is the Savior, but where he is the Son of God, according to Scripture, is in his resurrection. Romans 1, 3 and 4. So let's. Now, why is it important to know this? Because if you don't know this, the concept of sin would not be clear. Let's look at sin in our world.

And by the time Paul was going to explain sins, Paul uses a large number of words, parabasis to transgress, parab. Thomas, to miss your step. All right? Then you have adequate to do what is not right or righteousness. Okay? That majorly was done by John first. John 5, 16. All right, as a sin. Then you have parabases to transgress, to violate a law. You have paraphotoma to step aside. Besides, you know, okay, we also have akoe, which means to hear disobedience is parakoe, which is to not hear, to hear something else. So they are just synonyms. It's just like when you say nice, good, kind, you know, you are basically just surrounded using different expressions for something very similar. But then our focus is not on the writing of the epistles, because like we said, we are looking at how.

What's the connection in using the power basis. Then it will be the word sin. Amen. Romans 5:12. The first mention of sin, Let's even pick it gradually. Genesis 2, 16, 17. The day you eat of it, you he didn't say, I will be angry. When we look at sin and we look at the word offense in today's language, it means look at the justice system. Somebody steals money, we say, is a crime against the state. It's the state that will prosecute you. So we see it from God is the state, is the prosecutor. And so you have offended him. He's going to do justice. So it's from that point they will now teach righteousness from that very narrow prison. So God has said something. You have not done it. You have violated his law. So that is from that point. So you are guilty.

Then he comes and then he says, you know what you have done, rather than you go to jail, my son will go for you. My son goes for you. And then he said, well, because you see, I don't. And that's a good number of a great message. Say, well, since Christ has taken it, you don't have it anymore because you should be in that jail. He's not there. So you are not there. He's there. Here you are. You are discharged and acquitted. Which is. Which would be a strange illustration if we don't unify it. Why did I say that? Because if sin is from Genesis, that scenario does not suffice. If sin is from Genesis, that scenario doesn't suffice. I want to open our minds a bit to something, and the Lord God will help us. It doesn't suffice so.