That word end is meeting of the worlds. So what two worlds? What he's saying they are doing that means you are going to see it. And it's a meeting. You have to have two worlds. You have the world of the spirit and the world of the flesh. Hebrews 9. Talking about death of Jesus. Hebrews 9:26. For often must he have suffered since the foundation of the world. That's prophecy. But now, once in the end of the world, or the meeting of the ages, as he appeared to put away sin by the sacrament of the so two ages have come. There's the age of the evil one, and then the promised age. So Jesus came and the two ages met. Ephesians 2. I think what the translator is often trying to do is to try to separate the concepts.

Well, let's just leave that 2 7. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness towards us through Jesus Christ. So the ages to come. Is that the future or to come? From the Scriptures it has now come. So when we say eternal life, the best phrase I've found is to say the life of the age to come. Now put it in semicolon and say, as prophesied or predicted in the Holy Scriptures, the life of the age to come. So you find the Old Testament, of course, you have the world forever and ever. And all that you find, his mercy endures forever. Goodness and mercy shall follow me all days of my life, and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Olam.

That is, there was an eschatological meaning of the world forever. Now again, think, think. Where do you derive that from Genesis 3:22, Lest he eat of it and lives forever. So it's what was predicted. There is that eschatological meaning, that is the construction of eschatology as Antichrist. It just means something that was predictive in nature where it was said. So we have a duty, therefore, to see these words in all the worlds where they are used and what they mean. A lack of doing that will to cheat your audience the meaning. So therefore it means that every word must have its illustration, its narrative in the Jewish Scriptures. And again with that we said we must separate it. Genesis, the foundation of the world.

So every time you read foundation of the world in Genesis, it's either Genesis 1:1, 3 or Genesis 1 and 2. So you are is left for you to do the job of saying foundation. Where I think this is what the cosmos onion, you know? Yeah, yeah, you must. I'VE forgotten the Greek word. Now you must know what is he referring to at that point? That the Lamb that suffered from the world, he said that means it's prophesied, it has been spoken that he will do this from the book of Genesis. So that is how to properly interpret those texts. Therefore, it means that the book of Genesis becomes a governing principle of all statements. The law in Genesis is a prevailing rule and principle found in Genesis.

So concepts like eternal life, righteousness, redemption, of course will be found in their world, in their contextual meaning. Now, something we have also said, and I said earlier, is that the world of the Old Testament will remain unbelieving world. Right. Come on. Right, so that means Genesis 1, 2 and 3 was written for an unbelieving world. It becomes a book of persuasion. John 16:8. The Spirit of truth will come and guide and it will convince the world of sin. Again, that is an issue with a translator. Look at your work. Now, King James, who is just like you, takes a language that is not his own, a Greek language, electros a word that has a multi purpose meaning in the sense that the underlying factor of that word is to provide evidence. Provide evidence for or against a courtroom evidence.

Usually where I want to convince to convict, or so I want to convince to convict or I want to convince to discharge. So it leaves me with, I am now before my audience and the King James translators, whom I'm going to come after very soon, they use convict. In today's language, convict means to hang somebody and say you are wrong. Whereas in the King James days, convict simply means something that is that pricks the heart. That pricks the heart. People are convicted and they are smiling. It also means to be sad. You can be convicted and be sad. So now this is it. Now if I'm going to first of all say I'll use the word convince, but I'm not sure whether I'll be correct.

Because if I say convinced, it will simply mean that it is absolute, that where the spirit does it, you will be convinced you are falling into a pit. That pit I've fallen into will mean that I'm going into the era of tulip, irresistible grace. So therefore, that means the word convict is going to have multilateral meanings. I can convict and then you believe. I can convict and then you don't believe and you are guilty. That's what I'm saying here. So I am not going to crucify them for using convicts. I would have. But in second thought, the truth is that word can be positive and negative at the same time it can fall on your lapse as paucity because you are a Christian. Then somebody's laughs because he's a non believing person. So he is convicted of sin because he does not believe.

But the truth is that the Spirit of God sets out to convince so that you believe. But is that an absolute statement? No, because in John 20 he says Whosoever sins are retained. Are retained. Who's following what I'm saying here? What have I done now? I have used intertextual systematic way to arrive at the meaning. John 3:16 to 18 does not mean you will be convinced. John 20, 22, 23 is the coming. You'll be convinced. Are we setting out to convince you? Yes. But would you be convicted? Yes, of course. Not made to feel sorry? Made to feel guilty? Yes. Is it by doing something negative? No, it's by positive gospel. But a positive gospel can become negative in the heart of a non believing person. So if you are a translator today, would you use the word convict?

I would advise no, unbundle the word. Don't use stereotype meanings. So a teacher will stand on John 6, 7 and 8, 16, 7 and 8 and say the Spirit of God will bring the truth of Christ to you, where you believe and receive. Or if you doubt, you are condemned. Does that explain it? So that means I will unpack the word. I will unpack the word. So which means that what narrative should I apply here? Can I apply Deuteronomy 28 to 30? Yes. Life and death. Do you get it? I apply it. Let me ask you, can I apply Genesis 2, 16, 17? I think so. Come on, can I apply Isaiah 118? Yeah. Can I apply what? Believe my report? Isaiah 51? Yes, because they are all intertextually related. I can get faith from the work of the Spirit.

I also can get unbelief. So now before you now look at it now, in today's world, will the word convicts drive over your points? Would it? No. Do you think it can you are interested or not? Would it? What do you think will drive all your points, huh? Stir to what set was, what will you use? I've heard you. Unbundle it. Now what would you have used? It's one out of many. I mean look at second Timothy 3:16. Because you see, to reprove. Some versions say to convict. Now the truth is, in as much as we know that the essence of the Torah was to convince. But did it also condemn? Yeah. So you can see that punch liners are dangerous. You must explain it. You Must explain it. So our way out is exegesis plus systematic theology.

We have already said the enemy will come when you don't understand. So my world is important. My world is important. Is important. So it's a book of persuasion. Again, get back what I say that the audience is an unbeliever. So that would say to convince the world of sin because they believe not on me. Is Jesus's audience same as whose audience? Yes. So I've connected the two worlds today our worlds related. Yeah, they are. Once again, how does the Spirit convince? It's not difficult. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. Theonistos 2nd Timothy 3, 16. That shows he uses human elements. It's the work of the Spirit through human vessels.

Because if Jesus is giving you a background of the Old Testament scriptures and men were the ones that did the job, that shows you that he's talking about the ministry of the world. So John 16:8 is evangelism. But bigger than that, it is the entire Scriptures in view. Can we therefore say that the entire Bible is an evangelistic tool? Because that is the background of the Torah. So now this is critical in Bible interpretation. How important is faith? Faith is the how. And faith is the endpoint in Bible interpretation. The element of faith. Pay attention. Comes before. I want to be very careful because I don't want to say something that is very controversial. I know why I'm saying that the element of faith happens with the understanding. You cannot take it with faith. Let me quote a 20th century scholar. What he said.

Now he's a New Testament scholar. This is what he said. I might have put this out on Facebook. And it's going to be a phrase we're going to use in our book soon. He says the word with which the New Testament confronts us intends to believed. That is the New Testament wants to believed. So it's a book of faith. And so rules out once and for all any sort of neutral treatment. Why was this statement made? To use the book as historical alone is faulty. To treat it like it doesn't have a subject matter is wrong. It's like trying to use a mathematics book as a neutral book. It's not neutral. It does not present itself as neutral. So if it doesn't, it is a book of faith. So he says it's not a literal treatment.

As soon as the historian sets aside or brackets the question of faith is making his concern with the New Testament and his presentation of it into a radical and total polemic against it. That is the moment a historian and this is what a lot of atheists do. They try to make it a book of other things. For example, people force the Bible based on things, around geography, around other things. I said, no, this is not what it's for. These historical facts were merely in the narratives. That is not the reason for the writing of the book. The reason for the book is theology to see and believe and unseen God. And you can see the challenges we face in new theologians.

Allow me to use that phrase because as much as people don't like the word theologian, anybody that takes the Bible on in any assembly of the saints has earmarked himself a theologian, whether consciously or unconsciously, maybe a baby one, maybe a false one, maybe a bad one, but that's exactly what he's doing. So the moment that a fellow takes that book and the intention again is not to either have people believe or strengthen their persuasion, he has misused it. So you cannot remove the context. Faith, oh, fools slow of heart to believe. So this takes us to a critical element of our study because we are still in the introduction. Now, the thing is, I want you to drop your pen and listen. We have two books of the Bible.

Originally, I wish it wasn't so, but we have two books of the Bible which they are marked out. We have the New Testament, we have the Old Testament. Interestingly, one is Greek, one is Hebrew. That is this, that is simple way of saying what I'm saying now because of what we are trying to undo here. There has come over the time contradictions. Now when I have people say, well, the Old Testament is the dispensation of the law. Let me, let's see, few things, I've emerged from it. The New Testament of grace. That is a thinking. You will see why that kind of thinking emerged. They now have another one. Well, that is a brother of what I just said, which, well, God, in the Old Testament, people were responsible. They confessed their sins, they did this, they did that.

But now we're in the middle because Jesus has come, we no longer have to do it. Okay, that's. It's like the same school of thought, just in another word. Now I, another thinking pattern will say, well, the truth is that the Old Testament, this one is coming home, was not written to us, but for us the New Testament was written to you. You know, that's not totally accurate because you are not in Corinth, neither are you in Rome. So whether you are looking at the Old Testament or the New Testament, you neither of them, allow me use that phrase. Did the Author. Have you primarily in mind when he was writing it? There's something we say in law. You don't make an offer to the world. For every contract, there must be two parties. The. What is that first one? Offeror and offeror.