Luke 24:25 and said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken? Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin at Moses and all the prophets? He findeth them in all the Scriptures, the things Concerning Himself. Verse 44. These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written the law of Moses in the prophets and in the psalms concerning me. Then open eat their understanding that they might understand the Scriptures. So understanding, which is the word swinemi is used for the with the ability, or used for the ability to bring facts together and put them together for them to have a common message and a common platform.

So that is what swineme is in his Neymaya. Chapter 8, verse 7, the B part. He caused the people to understand the law and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. So let's say a few things that we go to some text. Again, the Bible is cut across different settings. And so the setting of the Old Testament. Now the challenge here is that I want you to observe that Egypt will be the setting of the false writing, either by the virtue of education. And look at Acts 7:22, where Stephen. Stephen, acts 7:22. I'll start from 21. And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up and nourished him for her own son. Nourished him for her own son.

And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and was mighty in words and deed. Learned there is used for education. Now the previous text says she nourished him as her son. Now there are three ways to approach that. That means that there will be non biblical sources for us to know their culture. What does it mean by nourished? Now there is the formal Egypt education, but there is one because of the way Pharaoh was like God. I mean all knowing and all that. By the time that by the Pharaoh of the book of Genesis transformed, you know, things that they were now commercially, you know, a giant. They were really, you know, they had a lot of things going. So by being brought up and being the first writer of scripture, it means that the settings will be Near Eastern.

The settings will have a good number of Palestinians thinking Middle east thinking. The setting will be within the context of their culture. And because words oftentimes require images for explanation. So in doing that, the same way you Teach a child. Then you begin to use pictures the same way Moses approached his writing. So that when you come to the epistles, you have a Greco Roman setting mixed with a Palestinian world. A Greco Roman Palestinian world. And that's why today, when you talk to a Jew and you say that Jeremy22 is referring to trousers, he laughs at you. A man shall not put on. He begins to laugh at you. Because what you are saying is not what was said. You begin to say, what are you talking about? Because the concept of trousers and skirts has nothing to do with the Near Eastern tradition.

Absolutely nothing. You know, we can delve into other issues like that. So therefore you have no choice but to go back into their world. Because whilst your goal is still your own world, because you did not originate the writing, you must go back into their world. Therefore, 2nd Peter 1:20 says that no prophecy of the Scripture is of any private origin. And use the word odios there, I think. Yeah. Which has to do with. Yeah, and it shows that you don't. Scriptures were not emanating from people by themselves. He says prophecy came not in the old time by the will of man, but only men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. So the content, right, will differ from the container. The content is the Logos. I thought we have said that the bar. Have we established that?

Have we established that the Daba, the Logos, which is where we translate to the Logos, which is that consistent message, conversation, conclusion of Scripture. And it was from that word, the bar that the world was created. Which means that what Moses was relating with is not the creation of the world, as much of the creation of the world being used in the conversation. So rather than use Genesis 12 as how the world was created, Genesis 12 is using creation in the conversation. God's plan of salvation. Adam and Eve coming out of the side of Adam, you know, again is a conversation. An help meet for him is a conversation. You've seen the use of seed, for example, after his kind, then he changes seed to human beings is a conversation. Light and darkness is a conversation. Heaven and there's a conversation.

The water has been divided. We have seen that from Genesis 2 are the nation is a conversation. The use of day is a conversation in the conversation. So our approach will be to separate the content from the container. Why did I say it? Say that now. Have you ever seen people teach mathematics in Yoruba language and in English? The truth is the mode of teaching it in Yoruba language. You defer. The illustrations will differ. You can't for example, be teaching somebody Yoruba language. Mathematics in Yoruba language, some of you are thinking is impossible. The one I thought was never possible, but became possible was one day that I saw someone teach English language in Yoruba language. This is the end has come that. I mean, this one is a different ball game, you know.

But when you teach a subject like mathematics, which is universal, and then you commit it into Yoruba language, you will definitely, because your order is Yoruba, you are going to use illustrations in Yoruba land. It's not at that point you say, let me use something from, you know, example in New York. What are you talking about? Or an example in London. You have to come to where Yorubas are. So what I said that. Why I said that to say this is. The container will be different. So whilst we say the word of God is written in Scripture, it is communicated through the words of men. So we can't get to God's word without understanding men's words. Therefore, a major commentator in the Jewish culture and language said, there are a lot of Bible verses that says that God does what he never did.

God is often said to do what he merely commands or causes or permits to be done. We must therefore understand that the Hebrew culture is heavily into idioms. Heavily. I want you to put the word heavily in capital letters. Therefore, in language of scriptures, natural consequences are spoken of as though they are predetermined ordained. What becomes a conclusion oftentimes seen as a predetermination. That is, the Hebrew culture will use a conclusion as though it was predetermined. It doesn't preclude you from studying the context of their statements. So when you hear God blinded the minds of people, look at this context. Paul is interpreting Isaiah 6, 9, 10, that says that their hearts were blinded and all that. And Paul says the minds of them, the God of this world had blinded the minds of them that believe not.

Do you know that Isaiah actually said it without mentioning the devil? He said in them, lest I come and heal them, and they are converted. So Isaiah's Hebraism is just to say God did not do it, though he is the one talking about it. So abrasion is not as difficult as we probably would think. It's just that in every idiomatic expression, you will solve it with context, just like exaggerations. For example, many don't know that the Bible has a lot of sarcasm today. If you preach in sarcasm, people will say you are taking things too. You are doing It. But the Bible has a lot of sarcasm. So where people's disobedience, foolishness, conceit result into consequences, you will find God's utterances about them appear like he caused it, but he didn't. So which means that we must be careful of proof texting.

Where you take a text, no, look at the context, look at the actors. It also means that we must identify figures of speech. Every culture has its own language. Where it is. See, why do people differ? People differ based on culture. Not even on skin, based on languages. The moment someone's language is not your language, let me say something. Even in a Yoruba land that we have, where we all speak Yoruba here, sorry for using Yoruba over and over again. There are still shades of it. There are shades of it. By the time we start looking at different, you know, different kinds of different types of different. How could I put now sectors or different mini cultures within the same tribe and then different history behind them, then you begin to ask yourself, well, what does this one mean when he says this?

Sometimes statements are made historical, a whole story. For example, a 200 year history can be compressed into one sentence that is being used by everybody. But somehow over the years, those who now use it will not know the history. For example, I mentioned the use of Oyegiygi because it has been converted into Christian worship. People don't know that it has a deity it refers to. You know, so now it's not wrong because it's culture. You can also take the same name and use it. It's not. I mean, but to call it biblical is what is wrong. That is not the biblical meaning. But that can suffice to mean a man's praise of God. Today it's not a problem. But he must know the root of words that he uses. So therefore we must know the peculiarity of the Hebrew.

A lot of idioms and precisely we said active verbs are used by Hebrews to express not the doing of a thing, rather the permission of it. We must recognize this. So therefore translating words will come out more of a task in the Old Testament than in the New. The reason I've told you is because we are nearer the New Testament era, but we are. Father, I told someone one day, I said, why couldn't. This was the question I asked. This was like 2018. I said, why couldn't the Hebrew? I said, no, that's not the question. Have they now changed how they speak? He said, no, it is their culture. I said, wow, so even up till now. Yes, that is the way they speak. It is. It is part and parcel of the culture.

Yes, there could be attempts to make it a bit more amenable today's practice, but it is the way they speak. So therefore you must avoid a word for word, literal rendering. You must find out the meaning. A Bible scholar must harm himself with dictionaries. He must harm himself with dictionaries. Now, I remember looking at the word error born because ereborn is a borrowed word in the New Testament Greek, where you have the guarantee, the earnest of. The earnest of our purchase possession. Ephesians 1:22. No, no, Ephesians 1:14 and 15. And earnest there I saw that the New Testament Greek just retains ereborn because by using era born, just like when you have Abba, it's Aramaic, it's not Greek. Where you have. I think I've already mentioned Hallelujah. Phrases like Amen. When you say amen, the amen, you know it is a loaned word.

A loaned word. So you must go to the culture to understand it. So when I saw that word, and naturally what I used to think, because I heard translator say was that, sorry, preacher say that was that. What it means is that is the. Is a part payment, down payment. If I think I have some, I'm not sure whether it's amplified that has it as down payments. So I had the view that, okay, what it means that there's a more will come. Now I remember this. This argument came up in 1996. It was about my birthday, interestingly. And we had this. We were fighting over this song. Blessed national Jesus mind. Oh, what a foretaste of glory divine. So we are saying, how can redemption be a foretaste? How can Satan be?

So we fought and fought and then came to a conclusion, just like Acts 15, that, well, it's a four taste and a full taste that the truth is that we have the Holy Ghost, but we don't have everything yet. We ended that debate. But because of the phrase down payment. When I went into where that down payment issue was used and error born it is. I have promised you I will do something. So you want me to give you the evidence that I will do it. Now I now give you the worth of what I said I would do using something else. For example, I said, I'm going to buy you a car. The car is 20 millionaire. So I now gave you a land document. It's not the car. I didn't promise you a car.