You know what Peter did? Peter disconnected all the events. He didn't connect them. Then he said, have the faith of God. That is Old Testament. God's faithfulness. Very verily I say unto you, whosoever shall say unto this mountain, be thou removed and be thou cast into the sea, and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things that he sees shall come to pass, he shall have whatsoever he saith. Now look up guys, without having a presupposed meaning, who is the whosoever there? Jesus. Because that's what he just did to the fig tree and to the temple. So you have judgment there. And there was a. Now how, you know, eating, reading is that he's talking to the fig tree. Then his rest is a mountain. Now the question is, how does that apply to sickness and diseases?

Because when he removes sickness and disease also it's also a judgment call. I can Only explain Mark 11:23 24 based on an intertextual understanding. So does he have a multi layer understanding? Come on. Yes. Does he have multi layer understanding? Yes. Because there was no mountain that Jesus moved. It was a fig tree. The fig tree is figured already. Did he use the same authority on sickness and disease? Yes. But hear me, no man eat of this forever. The sickness and disease remove forever. No, but does it have to relate with eternal redemption? Yes, that's why 24 very well. Tells you whatever things you desire, when you pray, believe you sin and you shall have them based on the faithfulness of God. And if you look at that very well, 25 relates with forgiveness of sins.

Because the Torah prayer, the prayer of the Torah, all the prayers of the Jewish hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is one God. Thou shall love the Lord your God with your heart and your soul. Faith in God's faithfulness to save. And the second exodus, the third exodus leading to the final exodus is what he's saying in there when you stand praying, forgive if you do not. It is not like your heavenly Father who forgives your trespasses. So what happens to the mountain? And the victory is God's forgiveness. His healing bound is reconciliation. And then you demonstrate it in your lifestyle of prayer. That is multilayer. Look at the healing ministry of Jesus. We've done that study already. The healing ministry of Jesus are exegetical and also systematic in theology.

So every time heals the sick, the first meaning is the blind eyes saw. But it's a wider meaning, right? To see the wisdom and counsel of God in the gospel. And you are a new creature in Christ. Revelation, knowledge, same thing as deaf ears, casting out of devils, all that and all that. So let me now bring that back here. Can a scripture have multiple meanings? They are slow. Okay, can we say multi layer meanings? And none of them must contradict each other. Come on, does that make sense? Does that make sense? Come on, does that make sense? So Matthew 8, 16, 17, Isaiah 53, can I receive it as a physical healing scripture? Yeah. Is it a physical healing scripture? No. But does physical healing explain it? Yes. So mark 11, 23, 24, 23.

Can I use that to have what I say when I speak to a situation? Like Jesus did in Mark 4? Spoke. He spoke to situations, spoke to the. Spoke to the sick. But what Jesus said to the tree or to the sick, was any of it permanent? No. But wasn't the faithfulness of God supposed to be for something that is permanent? Yes. So that means I need to explore. If I stop at commanding the sickness to go, I haven't done justice to the text. Come on, are we together? I haven't because I have simply removed the implication, which is a wider context of a text. Are you with me? When he turned water to wine. John. John. Which is not synoptic. I finally, I say no, synoptic John did that to every he, every hidden miracle where a healing takes place.

If they say Lazarus sleeps. Oh, he's dead. What's he talking about? Lazarus sleeps, he's dead. Jesus is saying everyone that is born again will sleep and never die. See the wider implication here. There's a Lazarus that you can actually say he was raised from the dead, yet he said he will never die. And Lazarus died. Hello. He said he will sleep. So you have multi layered meanings and none of them are contradictory. Let me see if I follow what I'm saying here. Same thing, John 2. He turns water to wine and he says, my hour has not come. What's he talking about? There is a marriage, there is a wine, there is water. Humanity turned to the new wine of God. All in the same scenario. The temple was eventually destroyed, his body was crucified and he was raised from the dead.

The third day. Multilateral but non contradictory. So what is exegesis? Exegesis is to explain the text. But without systematic theology, a lot of gaps will be found in what you are saying. Exactly what I'm saying here. You getting it? So let's drive this home. I said the issues I must resolve between the author, the text and the reader is theology, the common language, the unity of social interaction? I said, in your interpretation, where you bring it to your world, it must never depart from what the original writer wrote. I must therefore learn to unify the text, the writer and the reader. In this sense, the reader will be my audience. So a teacher of scripture is a translator, interpreter. Let me say this and we'll drive it home. Therefore, wait. I am the unifier here, the pastor and the preacher.

The author has the intention the text gives, the direction, the indication and the communication. But the reader must understand. And where I cannot contextualize to my reader, then I have lost the job of a teacher. I must contextualize it. In today's world, what's the context? I must contextualize it. What will be the context? So therefore I must combine the world. Pay attention. The world behind the text, that's the author, the world in the text, the grammar and the world of the reader, the world before the text. Today it's also important to put in notice the character of the author, the character of the text and the reader. You must know the character of Paul. Who is Paul? Hear me. A systematic study of Scripture without involving the character of the author will have a lot of gaps. And those gaps can be counterproductive.

You follow me? Are you following me? Those gaps can be counterproductive. So go back to Luke 24. We said Jesus tackled two, three things. O fools, slow of heart to believe. Just like Moses, Mark 16:14, hardness of the heart. Matthew 19:8. Because of the hardness of your heart. So the context of the entire Old Testament will be unbelief. That is why it is called kerouso. Oh, sorry, Evangelion, a gospel unbelief. And because the Old Testament will therefore, in the law of God will also have his judgment. Let me go into the word judgment. Judgment and justice are not evil things. And let me read a quote so that this will make sense to you. You could put it down. If I want to say 10 things today I've only said 0.5. Worry we are blessed. Okay, now look at this statement. It's instructive.

Trying to incriminate the doctrine of God's righteousness and justice. To make it like God kills is serious injustice to scriptures. Judgment and justice can include death. And that's the challenge we have in our study. There's nobody here. We have a lawyer here or two. Actually, there's no lawyer here who calls a judge an assassin or a killer when the judge does what is right. Not no. Justice should never be termed as evil. Therefore, in the way we explain God's righteousness and judgment, we must be careful to not think that God's judgment does not include justice. I love what a fellow said last year. He said every preacher of the gospel must be a universalist because you cannot stand anybody get destroyed. He said, but you must be realistic enough to tell people that there's cause and effect.

If you don't believe in salvation and you don't want it, you are not saved. That is justice. That is judgment. So God in his judgment, you know we have judgment against katakrima in the Greek where it means God judges against and catacrima is in Genesis. 2:15, 16, 17. Look at this. Now look up everybody. He's God and Adam. Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. The Gospel, the promise. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. That's not what God did. For in the day we already know the trilogy of good and evil is not what God did. So if he says thou shalt not eat of it. Judgment. Judgment in the sense of he's discerning for you, for the day you eat of it, you shall die. Judgment and justice.

Now let me ask you, which one did God do in both. Both. Is he the executor? He's not the executor. He's saying sin will bring death. Now let me ask you, is this statement part of the Torah? Yes. So that means judgment, justice and the good news are components of the Torah. Now read through the entire Old Testament. That is the content of the 39 books. Hear me. In the judgment and justice, is God active? Come on. Is God active? Judgment and justice. Come on, guys. Is he active in the punishment? No. But does he include the knowledge of the punishment in his judgment? Yes. We'll explore all of this as we go. So it is therefore important to understand the components of all this. You cannot equate God's judgment and justice as evil. The day you eat of it, you will die.

Let me just stir your pure mind a bit. We need to understand Bible language. For example, when Jesus in John 20:22, they received you the spirit. Whosoever sins you remit are remitted unto them. Please circle this explanation because it's going to become critical. I'm not sure what can achieve today, but. But I'll do my best tomorrow. Because I thought I was going to exhaust 2/3 of my notes today. I've not even got it now. Whoever sins you, remit everything to them. Now look at the second statement. Whosoever sins you retained, or whatsoever you retain actually are retained. You and I know that we don't retain sins. So in other words, it puts you active in people's disobedience. This will help your study of the Old Testament. Who's following what I'm saying here? Are you following what I'm saying here? You preached is accepted.

He said you have just repeated people's sins. You Preached it is rejected. He says you have retained it, but you know that you are not active in that retention. This will help our study of the Old Testament to understand that there is grammatical use of words. So it will therefore be wrong if we start to equate God's justice as evil. God does not do evil. But let me ask you, is it evil to refuse salvation and to be allowed to perish? Is that evil? No. And God will say it in active terms because his judgment is in love. So we said, I thought this years back, that the Statement in Genesis 2, 16, 17 is a statement of love. God's love is in his judgment. The day you eat of it, you will die. That is an utterance of love. Even though.

Look up, guys. Do you agree that is severe statement? Huh? It's a severe statement, but would you call it a punishment statement? No. It is only stern. Knowing the terror of God, we persuade men. Paul talks about sobriety, soberness and severity. He talks about the wrath of God where as we are going to see, God is deemed angry by doing nothing. So be careful because there is the essence of saying this is if things are not taught systematically, you produce heresy. Where the fellow says God is all good and what he's saying is more of. And I say oftentimes both the Universalists and the Calvinists are brothers from the same mother. One says, whether you love evil or good, you don't determine it. God will choose whom he will save, and you can't question it.

The other one says, God will choose to save you, everybody. And you also cannot go question it. They are both the same. I don't know why they fight. So it's critical to be clinical in the way you explain it. To equate the justice of God to mean evil is wrong thinking. He that believes and is baptized marks 15:16 shall be saved. 16:15. He that believeth not shall be damned. John 3:16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. He that believes in him shouldn't perish, but everlasting life. For God sent not his Son to the world to condemn the world above all things we saved. He says what? He that does not believe is already condemned because he has not believed. So that is God. Katakrima. He judges against katakrima. There's crema to see, something to judge, to discern.