He said, look, the truth is that Paul, yes, Paul had made most of the letters, but that Paul himself said that it's built upon the foundation of apostles and prophets. That the prophets are in the Old Testament, the apostles are the 12 and Paul inclusive. That he said, Jesus is chief cornerstone. That The Epistles are 1/3, Jesus is 2/3. That the real things we should follow are the letters. Jesus wrote himself letters to the seven churches. Very interesting. He said, how many of those seven churches even read Paul's letters? Why will Paul. Paul says because of this Paul thing that people have become hyper. Greeks don't just read Paul. Read this one, read that one. He said the epistles. Paul didn't know you were going to read the epistles. He just wrote, you know, to a church.

So you can also write your own epistles today. You know that things like Kenneth Hagin wrote their epistles. Something aging never said, something Paul never said. But the man just has a mousterion in that level. So the epistles are sermon notes, which means that just like your sermon note today, every word has an underlining narrative. Though I will look at the word blessed. It is not wrong today to use blessed for material things. I hope you didn't get that wrong. But it should not be taught as a scriptural language. So therefore the Old Testament was written for doctrine. Romans 4. But I want us to observe that word imputed. Imputed. Romans 4. I want you to listen to this very technical fact. It's very technical. If you miss this, one shouldn't have come. Romans 4. For what say the scripture, Verse three.

Abraham believed God. It was counted to him for righteousness. It was counted. So who counted it? Don't forget a writing. So Abraham's belief in God was put in that account as doing the right thing. Look up, look up, look up. Oh, doing the right thing. In contrast to who Adam. So righteousness must to justice. It means something. We must know what went wrong and what was corrected. So why is it counted to him for righteousness? Because there is a written account of an Adam who disobeyed. That shows you the writer of Genesis uses a contrast between Adam and Abraham. Look at verse six. Even as David describes the blessing of the man to whom God imputes righteousness without works. Blessed are those whose sins are forgiven. Whose sins are covered, is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.

Which means that Moses did not just think it up. All scripture is given by the inspiration of God. So Moses is inspired of God to say Moses what Abraham did. There is Adikia called Diachusone, Imputed. Romans 4:23. It is not written for his sake alone that Abraham that was imputed to him, but also for us to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead, who was delivered for offenses and was raised again for our justification. So therefore we find that. And again, look at Romans 5:13. Sin is not imputed. The word is Elogia, written as a charge against where there is no law. So look at the fluid nature of the word law. We see that words therefore are used in a fluid manner. We have seen the law of righteousness through faith.

Okay, believing this is right. We also have seen that in the overall picture, Abraham. Genesis 18, Verse 19. He will command the children and his household after him. At this point, who did we have? Just two in fact. Well, two. Ishmael and Abraham and Isaac and his household after him. And they shall keep the way of the Lord to do right and judgment. So which means that the foundation of doing right, believing right. Genesis 3 and 4 again, right believing or not believing and not behaving properly. So the foundation of not behaving properly is not behaving properly. So the concept of righteousness is written in Abraham for our sakes, same as the concept of seeing. Romans 5:13. What for our sakes do? First Corinthians 10, verse 11. They are written for our admonition. For our admonition, To warn us, to correct us.

2Nd Timothy 3:16. All scripture is inspired of God. Profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. So when he says preach the word is preach the old testament message. 2Nd Timothy 4 and 2. Study to show thyself approved unto God. A workman that need not be ashamed by dividing the word of truth is the Old Testament, 2nd Timothy 2:15. So when we say all Scripture is given by inspiration of God and profitable for doctrine. Does it include what God did, what man did, the evil that happened? Right. Does it include that everything and it is there for doctrine for Didaskalia is there to be researched, to be taught, to be explained. So therefore lies the now because of. Let's, let's look at the inherent dangers. I'm tempted not to go inside this. I'll probably just end with this session.

I don't want to start something I don't want to finish today. I want us to begin and continue. So let me just run through this, the danger here. And I want you to always see, I like to pass across logic to you as we are studying. You know, we looked at the Reformed theology and I think I said something to your WhatsApp. Yes, this is not thinking. Let's read again. Steve Lawson is if you know the import of that statement and that is a summation, of course, just like you have a summary of theology, they summarize it. That's why I told you that the term permissive will should not be used. And we're going to do that. We ensure that we make a distinction. Look at this statement.

In his sovereignty, God not only determines the ends, he controls all the necessary means to achieve those ends. Do you know what that means? I made you disobey so that I can punish you. Then that is not obedience or disobedience. It simply means there's a remote controller somewhere who just, you know. Have you watched puppet show before? That's what he does. A monkey at one point. And that's the way it sounds. So we said the reason why that theology is the way it is because of. You see, some things that we have approached the Reformed theology, Calvinism on is some Pentecostals are wondering why we are disturbing ourselves. They don't know is their problem that we are trying to solve. For today, let's just love God. You know, somebody was asking me, he said, I'm trying to see your position.

Was it yesterday or two days ago? I spoke to the guy. He said, would Jesus have closed down the church because of a pandemic? He asked me a question, interestingly. He wasn't asking me. He was just telling me that the church is not doing the work. The church is not working in. The church is not working in power. And I don't know why people complain. Did anybody stop you? The church is not, you know, in our sense, you know, man of God, you know, thank God for people like you who teach us the accurate counseling of God's word, blah, blah. He said, would Jesus have closed down his church at this time because of the pandemic? You know, we know that Jesus. I said, hold on, ask that question again. So he asked it. I said, if the government said so, he will.

So he said, what do you say? I said. I said, if the government said so. I said, jesus never disobeyed the government. He said, well, that is true. I said, very fine. So the people that are inside their houses, it's not because they cannot lay hands on the sick? He said, because they are obeying. I said, more. So this government is not persecuting you. It's not Pilate and it's not Caesar. Part of these governments are Christians. It's because in the natural they believe that people should stay indoors to keep safe. I said, they have not shut down the Internet? He said, no. Are they seized Bibles? He said, no. So there's nothing that Jesus is angry about with the rulers? He said, so, brother of God, what do you think? How do you think God is feeling now?

I said, he's lamenting at how wicked men can be or how careless we are. He said, that's all. You know, the way they say so that's all that was. I was going to say that's all. You mean that is all. What did he expect God to do really? He just stepped into the scene and just control the narratives? Then a whole lot of theology will stem out of that you yourself cannot imagine the end of what that is. So we said that. I look at. Somebody was telling me that. I said, first of all, I believe that we dealt with Calvinism in so great salvation. 4. I said, no, we didn't. That is the concept of salvation. Now there are other things that will emerge that you mustn't subsume under. That's the Old Testament is a revelation.

We know, we said that the Old Testament and the New Testament lies or fall together. So a mistranslation of terms. You can't be tired of knowing the original words in as much as it is not the end itself. You can't, because that is the way to know what was said. Look at how many times you do. You know, some of us. You know how many years you left secondary school. You are still learning English. Are you not learning English? Even some tenses, some things, they are not learning them. Which means. And why are you learning them? Because of communication and language. So you can't. You can't underplay or narrate the place of Learning the language. So look at the concept of. I think I mentioned that on Sunday. Predestination, foreknowledge, how it was twisted to a narrative. So that is a danger.

The danger of using the Old Testament wrongly. Let's now look at the second danger, which you might not see. Why? Because what I just read now by Steve Lawson know why I like them? When you mention their names, they don't build, they don't. For if it's from our brethren, you know, I would dare do it. I just say somebody said the second danger is to discredit the Old Testament. You know, there are two errors. There's a third one, though, which is not about theology, it's just about making money. That one is not theology. That one is more of a commercial interest. When you just go. And he count Abraham's blessings, you know, and he says, I told someone, I said, Abraham's blessing is a land. He said, yes. I said, so that's all. He said, piece of land. I said, no.

He said, if it's a land, the architect is not a piece of land. I said, it's the whole world. He said, that's it. Now that means that we own the whole world. See his head. Another blessing is that the whole earth is what we call the ecclesiology today. That's the blessing which is what is called righteousness. What did Abraham believe? He believed that all the nations of the earth will be blessed. That is where we find that. Oh, God. Saturday. Saturday. Let's wait. Let's believe that. Let's wait. So when is it the old land? His head materialistic. So his mind is. I can buy land in ajar. People that don't believe what Abraham believe, they are the ones that own it. So what are you talking about? So the two number one, where the Old Testament is mistranslated and misused. All right.

We just wanted a conversation and the guy is not a popular person. And he said something. I said that the first person who is going to say this, that I'm going to hear it clearly that the Titan law was in the Hebrew culture. It was the way they honored nobles. It was infused even into idol worship. It was used in Egypt before Moses was born, before Israel came. The Orientals used it same as the concept of priesthood. That the issue really was what we are saying to use Abraham's experience as a parable of honor. It is not to teach to give 10%. The concept of the tense was a mythology of the Near Eastern religions. It's part of Their culture. It's the way, you know, is the way. Look at today, people have a child. Some of you even did it.

You have a son, you give birth to a son. You wait till the next week to name the child. Because in Egypt, that's what they used to do the eighth day, which is where you name the child to show that something new has come. Just observing times and seasons. So just like the tithe Abraham. So when Abraham did it and multiple it as a law, it was meant to say, pay tribute, show honor. But let me now add something, you know, that was before the law. Well, after the law. Look at where that confusion is because of a lack of distinction on which law. So imagine you are preaching grace. I are saying we are not under the law. We don't have to give tithe. Tithing is of the law and all of that.