But the way to use it is to talk about what was already existing, animal sacrifice. So what we will have is a context of an imperfect method. That's what's available. I wouldn't say, why would God do that? I rather say, you mean God was able to use that. That for me is the wisdom of God. So Hebrews 11 and 29 now says, by faith, this is key. They pass through the Red Sea as by dry land. And the Egyptian that said to do it were drowned. Well, the truth is the word, as said, there is the word peri pera p R I A. It's used for experimenting. And Moses warns about that in Deuteronomy 28:56 and says, do not experiment. They were experimenting. Now let's now hold on at this point and ask a few questions.

And this is going to set the background of many things that happened. I know we've done this study in Exodus already. If you have anybody today who wants to cross the Atlantic Ocean, or let's say the Red Sea as it is today, you will say he's taking a risk. You will say he's committing suicide. You say, why would you cross the sea? Are you crazy? Well, but if he shows up with one gadget or one big machine or one big equipment, and he says, this equipment has been built to pass through the sea. Even at that, as you're watching him in the screen, on the screen, you still have your heart in your mouth, which means the very act of crossing the sea today is still suicidal. So what were the Egyptians trying to do?

They were trying to cross the sea without the power of God. And so saying that God destroyed them is half the truth. They destroyed themselves. And this sets the background of many other things. So, but the point is, why did God, why didn't God save them? The question we're probably going to ask again in this service, why didn't God save them? I don't understand that. You mean if a man comes to us, maybe there's fire in the building. The fire service shows up and they say, hello, there's fire, it can burn. And the guy says, who told you, please keep your mouth shut. And the guy says, look, take this route. And I says, no, I Don't need that say, leave it out, it's not fire to me. And the guy goes through the fire thinking that the fire service man is stupid.

You won't say, why didn't he save him? You say, why didn't he ask for help? That's what you are going to say. So the question is, why didn't not, why didn't God save the Egyptian army? It's why did they not ask for help? Why are you trying to put out the fire? So it's therefore critical to get this very straight, that the background here will always help us. I need us to think through the Old Testament very well and not jump the stories. The stories are informative whenever they are read appropriately. Now, let's battle some other questions. Have you seen people say, well, I know you're trying to dodge the Old Testament. And maybe what happened eventually was that Jesus came to put out the fire for God. He had known the God had messed things up.

He's already a misogynist, he's already a child killer, genocide leader. He's brutal, he's jealous, he's angry, he's possessive. And he doesn't respect human rights. He doesn't want people to serve any other God. Then Jesus shows up to be like the Man Friday. He tries to clear up the mess. You are going to experience people who are going to ask you that question, don't give me that Christ story. Are you denying 39 books? But it's either you deny the story of Jesus who becomes impossible because Malachi is not the end of the Jewish Bible, even though some Jewish writers or Jewish authors try to do that. It can't because Malachi ends by sin. There will come a prophet of the Lord who will come and prepare a way. The question is, did it happen?

If he did, and then all the prophecies had culminated in what happened in the four Gospels, then the story of Jesus becomes relevant. And then you have to end up what Jesus started with when he said, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things? So if Christ was killed and with every archaeological fact and theological fact and moral fact he was killed unjustly, then it means you and I need to reread the Old Testament. And through, as it were, the unjust means of killing Christ, he is raised from the dead and he defeats injustice in the world. Listen. Which means when we say Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, we must understand it both from the fact, history, truth, and then from theological aspect. I tell you what I mean. Unjust means of killing someone is an amateur.

It means justice is missing or an avon in the Hebrew it means it's a bent and broken means of doing things unfair. So Christ died for and with injustice, and he also dies theologically for our sins. Practically speaking, historically speaking, Christ died for sin. What do you mean by that? Unjustly? Theologically speaking, he died because were sinners according to the Scriptures. So we need to reread the Old Testament text and discover that the sins of humanity in this instance, the unjust nature of man is all that God had. And if you didn't know that before, look at the cross. If the cross is the wisdom and power of God, the cross is not his creation, the cross is not his means, but the cross is all he had. And that was what he used.

Having said that, it means therefore that we must adopt quickly in our studies of the Bible the five principles that I want us to look at together. And I believe that at the second part of this series, we're going to explore it. I call the first one the Genesis principle, or the Arche principle. Call it archaeology. Ake A R C H E the proton principle. It's the same thing where we go to the Book of Genesis to follow a pattern and we go to the Book of Genesis to ask what exactly was the beginning, what went wrong, what was being corrected, what was being set right? Then the Exodus presents to us that scenario where man begins to govern man illegitimately, and that's what sin also does. So the Exodus principle becomes vital in our study. The third is a Leviticus principle, worship.

Now we have a man out of bondage. He has to worship. Is worship compulsory? Hear me. He says, be ye holy for the Lord your God is holy. So we need to first look at the holy holiness of God and say, is this beneficial for humanity? If it is, that means the worship of God is morally right. If it's not, that means it's morally wrong. The fourth will be the numbers experience if things go wrong where we have disobedience. In Matthew 19:8, Jesus says to us, moses gave you the law or the second law, Deuteronomy, because of the hardness of your heart. And that therefore shows volition, free will that can choose not to worship even though you have offered its redemption from bondage, so he doesn't want the inheritance. So here we are, we have the hardness of heart. Matthew 19, verse 8.

And then finally we have God given the second law, Deuteronomy, where you re explain the law of God using human laws. All the five must Become critical in the way that we study. And you will not keep Moses who said, this entire nation, they are froward. And the children in whom there is no faith or faithfulness. Amen Zombiel 32 and 20. This will therefore help our studies of the whole Testament. Context is king. None of the context must be ignored. So let's begin to drive a few things home. The greatest challenge you are going to have is what happened from the Exodus to when they settled in Canaan. I mean from basically Exodus, some parts of Deuteronomy, maybe Numbers, Leviticus, but precisely Joshua, Judges will present for you the greatest challenges.

You can have little challenge with the Philistines, David and Goliath, because already you are going to see conquest, conflict. As we have said already, the old world, the fallen wall, was built in conquest and conflict. That's not God's making, but that's all he had to use. Don't forget two words, sufficient. And what Efficient wars were not efficient. God did not, is not an author of war, but that's all he had. So that said, we look at the critical things that people will accuse you of because you are a theologian, because you are a teacher of scripture. You must answer the questions. So the key one is, how would you explain the killing of the Canaanites? It looks brutal and it sets a bad precedence for today. You're going to see why in a moment.

Well, like I told a fellow that I met a couple of weeks ago, it becomes unjust by the time you read Jesus, whom all the actors of the Old Testament pointed out to. Well, if you don't have a problem with study, then you should study it enough and know that in every material and book there's something called the synthetic study, where you are able to sync all the thoughts together. Something sinks the Old Testament together. It is the story of one person. You'll have seen it laid in Genesis. You see it in Exodus, you see it everywhere. Moses, who was the like. I call it the numero no hero of the Old Testament said, a prophet will come after me. So it's either you discard Moses or you believe Moses. If you believe Moses, then you have to believe the things he said.

And Jesus made allusion to that. In John 5:45 he says, Think not. I'm come to accuse you before the Father. There's one who does it already. That's your unbelief, Moses, in whom you trust. He says, if you had believed him, you would have believed me. He didn't say, if you had killed like he did. He said, if you had believed. So if this truth that they spoke about Jesus, which every sincere scholar will come to the conclusion. That is why a lot of Bible critics like to discard the four Gospel story. They are fighting tooth and nail to call it a fable, either wholesale or partially, or try to look for contradictions. Because the moment we establish the Old Testament, archaeologically, historically, theologically, it creates a background for the four Gospels. If we can discard the four Gospels, we discredit the Old Testament.

Leave out the Epistles. The Epistles are only hanging on the four Gospels and the Old Testament. If either of them rises or falls, that happens to the Epistles as well. What the Epistles simply do is to follow up the original explained text of the Old Testament. So if Jesus taught differently, and if he is God, which we have established in our four Gospels study, then we have to listen to him. If he is God. And he says, thy kingdom come. The popular Lord's Prayer, Matthew 6 and 8, Matthew 6 9. Give us this day our sufficient food. He says, forgive us our trespasses, as we forgive those who trespass against us. If he will stand before Pilate and tell him, my kingdom is not of this world, if it were of this world, then my servants will fight.

He didn't say, my kingdom is not for this world. He only said, he is not of this world. And he uses the word cosmology. It's not with the arrangements you already have. God didn't arrange it. Man did. Then if you read Matthew, chapter 5, where Jesus broke the prison, he says, don't hate, love. Love your enemies. Bless them that curse you. Do good to them that hate you and persecute you. Pray for them that despitefully use you, that you will be like the children of your Father, who has His Son and his reign for everyone. If you read that. And in Matthew 26:52, Jesus said to Simon Peter, one of the twelve hey, if anybody shall live by the sword, he will die by the sword. In other words, the efficient vessel, the Chosen 1, Isaiah 42:1 has come. The Anointed One.

Isaiah 60:1 has come. The one who will carry the good news around the world. Isaiah 52, seven has come. And what does he have to say? He says in 52, Matthew 26:52, he says to Peter, when he brought the sword, what? What does it say to him? He says, put back your sword in its place. That's important. Put it back in its place. If you live by it, you die by it. So which means that the old world the fallen one lived by the sword. So therefore you will, as a theologian, the teacher of Scripture, be faced with answering those questions. And you cannot rush in your answers. You must understand that the scriptural truths are philosophically explained. What I mean by philosophically? Philosophically I mean there's a philosophy behind everything that is done. It just means a thought pattern.