Luke24. We have two issues to deal with today, more than Thursday. Luke 24. 25. All folks who have had to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? Begin at Moses and all the prophets them in all the Scriptures and things concerning himself. Look at 44. These are the words which I spake unto you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which are written in the law of Moses and in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. So we said that this is exegetical and also systematic. In other words, exegetical because you are dealing with an issue. And so he definitely will exegete texts, but systematic because he goes through the scriptures, arguably the 39 books of the Old Testament.

In Nehemiah, chapter 8, verse 8, It caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. Then verse nine or seven, that's verse eight now. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly and gave the saints and caused them to understand the reading. So we can see again that the job of Bible study, Bible teaching, is to interpret, which delves also into the use of language. Now, the other time we said, we must therefore be careless on the use of the word law. You know, John 1:17, the law was given by Moses. Grace and truth came by Jesus. John 5:45, Think not I'm come to accuse you. There's one that accuses you before the Father, that does not accuse you. Even Moses, in whom you trust, for I do believe.

Moses have believed me, for he wrote of me, if you believe not his writings, how shall you believe my words? Notice that if you believe not his writings, how shall you believe my words? So it shows, therefore, that in the use of the word law of Moses, the writer, the researcher, the teacher, must be very skillful in not presenting the wrong picture. We'll see some of the dangers today, or maybe Thursday. There's some There's a danger that you and I must avoid. Now look at Romans 3. There's something in Romans 3 that buttresses this strongly. Now we know that verse 19, that what things over the Lord say, it says to them that are under the law that every mouth may be stopped, okay? That all the world may become guilty before God. Now, when we say under the law, there are two connotations.

It can be under the law of sin and death, because you have a hard heart, or under the law to mean you submit to the Scriptures. In this instance, under the law will mean the Audience of the law. Wherefore, by the deeds of the law shall no flesh be justified in his sight by the things that they did that were written. For by the law. That is, when we read what is written, we have the knowledge of sin. But notice verse 21. Now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested being witnessed by the law and the prophets. So that means there are two kinds of laws. One without the law, one law is apart from righteousness of God. Then one law witnesses the righteousness of God. So later on in chapter three, you have Paul saying, where therefore is the bold?

By what law? By law of walks. No, verse 27, by law of faith. So where you don't have a subject attached to the phrase, find out in Romans 8, 2, the law of sin and death. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus, the law of faith, the law of walks. So it is therefore incumbent on us to find out. You cannot escape translations, you cannot escape finding out original words. You cannot escape looking up for context. So therefore we are bound to find out how the Old Testament was written. We have said it is a literature. We have said it has its own grammar, not just that, it has its own world, it has its own context. And a miss. You know, I've said it over the time that where a scripture is wrongly interpreted, oftentimes a major truth is lost.

Something fundamental somewhere can easily be missing where a major truth is lost or where its scripture is wrongly interpreted. As we have seen, there is no scripture that does not require diligent attention. No. Let me give you a few. History. No Jewish, no early church teacher forsook any books of the Old Testament. None. In fact, one of the litmus tests for putting. Of course the 39 were already used in the days of Jesus, so that wasn't an issue. But the 27 books, besides the synoptics, were authorized only by the 39 books. So to the intent where the logos of the Old Testament, the Darba, is witnessed to attested to, is where the scriptures of the apostles or the writers of the apostles were accepted. There was nowhere. There was no black spot. There was no. Don't touch this area.

All scriptures, Paul says all scripture is given by inspiration of God. So. So that's clear now. All writings are inspired. All the writings are inspired of God. Theonistus in the Greek. And it is profitable for doctrine. The moment you use the word doctrine, the daskalia, it therefore reduces or, sorry, streamlines the material to one that requires research. So we want to explore a bit of history. From what we said on Sunday and even this morning. How. Because if you say there's an area where many of us get disconnect is the Old Testament. We said on Saturday or Sunday that why does it appear like the books are talking about two different gods? Why does it appear like the New Testament suddenly shows up with the love of God, a loving God.

The Old Testament shows us, you know, more of a just God who can do and undo Unpredictable. We can't say unreliable. Unpredictable. Why did the Disneyland just, you know, eke out an image and we said no. All the writers did was overcome the barrier of language context and unify the worlds appropriately. I must reemphasize the need to properly understand the language, else you will say the wrong thing. Everybody knows importance of communication. You must know what the person means where you notice that someone is not. Doesn't speak your regular language. You have to become an interpreter immediately or get one. So for example, why would Paul, when I read Exodus 12 like an Englishman, all I will see is look at Exodus 12. What I will see in Exodus 12 is Exodus 12. That's the Passover.

I will pass through verse 12, the land of Egypt this night. And I will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And against all the God of Egypt, I will execute judgment. I am the Lord, I will pass through. So my thinking will be God will move through the land of Egypt, then he will kill. But if you don't want him to kill you will have to put blood on your doorpost and, you know, observe all the ceremonies. Now, before we get to the crucial part of the kind of language Moses uses when it comes to the relationship between the Egyptian mode of culture, I mean mode of worship, and what he, as it were, imposed on Israel because of their own believing heart. It's important to notice that like I mentioned earlier, language is first.

Then I see Paul in 1 Corinthians 10, verse 10. Call that scenario. Corinthians 10, verse 10. They were destroyed of the destroyer. They were destroyed of the destroyer. Writer of Hebrews who is not poor. Hebrews 11, He that destroyed, verse 28. The firstborn should touch them. Were they reading from the same book? Because I thought what they would say is, God Almighty will not touch those that God Almighty protects. But they use the same Greek word destroyer. Some versions even have it that first Corinthians 10:10 as angel of death. Okay, writer of Hebrews 2:14 says, he that had the power of death, that is the devil. So by Hebrews 11:28 is referring to the same person. I didn't see that in Exodus 12. I didn't see it. So is it likely that the New Testament writers just decided to twist the words?

No, it is the fact that they were able to interpret it correctly. So we want to go to writers before Paul because the life of truth is consistency. The people teach before Paul, I want to say, before Jesus came, was it something that Jesus introduced? Was it Jesus that introduced the concept of guys is not God. He's not God, he's the devil. Oh, you mean he's not God. We thought he was God. Was it Jesus? Now if you notice that one of the things that when it comes to these kind of controversial issues, we do our best to go into historical facts because it is like certain things that people teach today. I don't want to give names. Right. Right now, 400 years after Paul, it wasn't taught. So which means that his immediate audience didn't give it this meaning.

Hundred years after him didn't give you that meaning. So where did you and I get that meaning from? Along the line, for example, the disappearing act of the world. People were just going to disappear overnight. In fact, the first 1500 years, nobody wrote anything around it. And this is why, in as much as Jehovah Witness is a heresy, in every herese you will find a truth that was perverted. You discover that we always had a problem with. When they will say, no, God's kingdom is here on earth, I will look at them and say, you all perish when the earth is destroyed and the rapture will take place. Not knowing that if we are not careful, we are both heretics. So within this sphere we find, okay, where did this doctrine come from before?

Have to look at Paul, all the people that were his disciples, I mean those who came years after him, origin. A lot of these folks and some of these guys that, okay, fine, some of them had theology here and there that, you know, we could question Tertullian, I said, but these guys didn't say all of these things you're talking about. Just like when we're talking about miracles, were able to establish it using other, not exactly biblical materials, but biblical in the sense that they agree with scripture on the history of these things we are referring to. So between the prophets and the time of Jesus, how did they read that story? One of the things that we will be careful in submitting is to say the devil was not known in the Old Testament. That is not absolutely true.

Rather say that the grammar did not accommodate. Describing the devil will be a safer way to say it. The grammar did not accommodate it. So we said. Early Jewish theologians therefore knew the importance of interpreting these things properly. We've already mentioned Ezra. Remember that how Ezra rewrote 2nd Samuel 24, verse 1, God's anger kindled against David, and so he numbered Israel. Ezra. In 1st Chronicles 20:21 says, Satan stood up. And by mentioning Satan, which is where you have the accuser, the one who brings charges against you, it's not say. It's not changing the narrative. It's only using another kind of grammar. So our first port of call again will be the Book of Job. The Book of Job. Presents a scenario. We read it the other day that obviously we saw a Satan. Okay?

And look at job 1, 11 and 12, put forth thine hand now and touch all he hath. So the way God touches is by not touching. You see that job 111 and 12. The way he touches is by not. How can I say, put forth your hand now? That is, remove your hand and touch all he has. Now, today's language, help me remove your hand, and I will touch all he has. The grammar. Do you notice that throughout that Job narrative, even the writer did not say, Satan did it. But you will see he did so. The grammar did not permit using Satan actively, even though he was loud and God was silent in those activities. And he will curse thee to thy face. So notice this. Put away your hand and he will curse you.

So therefore it will happen that men will accuse God. And the Lord said unto Satan, behold, all that he has is in your power. Now let me carefully ask you, did God give Satan power? No, no. There was nothing there that indicates that. So by saying, put forth your hand and touch all he has is basically saying, remove your hand, because the hand we now saw is that of Satan. All he has is in your power. Did God allow Job? Nope. Sorry. Did God allow Satan? Nope. It was in Satan's hand. Was God protecting Job from Satan? Yes. So the hand that was put on job from verse 12 is the hand of the devil. But look at Job two, three. Now, did Job attribute his misfortunes to God? Yes. Job 1:21. The Lord had given, the Lord had taken away.