It is believed that some translations just put it inside. I don't want to argue that. But Without a doubt, 1 Corinthians 11 negates it. Where he says a woman prays or prophesies. 1 Corinthians 14. The entire context of prophecy negates that. Then first Corinthians 16, where he mentions Priscilla right there and he church in the house. So there is no contradiction. It's just an explanation. I go on and say, of all the discipline writers, only Paul. And I say it without contradiction. Only Paul was assertive on the woman in the ministry. The unfortunate part is this, those who try to attack women in the ministry, the text they also use is Paul 1st Timothy 2, 1211 and 12 1st Corinthians 1433. Those are the only two texts. Of course, you have the 1st Timothy 3, a husband and one wife.

And you know, having a rule over his household. Then I remember saying to someone, I said again, these are the areas that I believe God. I mean, I took this up recently in the transition meeting, but I let it go because it was very heated. I said the idea of even writing a husband or wife in itself is wrong because the choice of words were misleading. Then the idea of now saying. I said, look at the flow of the context. He says he has a rule over his children. He doesn't mention the wife. And he goes down and down. Then he says, let the women and some point answer says the women there are the wives of the pastor. How can you give instruction to the wives of the pastor? Look at the instruction that he gave over the church.

I said, that's not possible. Then you begin to look at them. I was going to say something again. You know, of course it doesn't flow with all of Pauline's epistles, no doubt. So it's another issue that we have to look at very well. Because the Bible will be said to promote male chauvinism or misogynism and it therefore incumbent on you to deal with it very well. Misogynistic thinking. I remember I was in my human rights class and my lecturer raised her hand. I saw he was talking. I raised my hand, said look, the Bible is even this and that and she quoted this and quoted that. Of course, that day the only answer I gave her was the New Testament. I just ran there quickly and debunked it.

But I noticed because she wasn't as deep with the Bible, she would have said, why read the New Testament? What about, what about that? And I would have, I'm sure that day I'll just have sat down. Because you go to the text that when you enter it, you just be looking, you just say, well, this is in contrast with the Near Eastern religion. Is it better than what was obtainable? So let's see the challenges we can have. Questions you have. Why did Sarah call Abraham Lord? Genesis 18:12, fortunately, unfortunately is referenced by Peter in 1st Peter 3. And verse six calling him Lord. They also tell you that, you know, why are Hebrew children said to belong to their father's house? Leviticus 22:13.

Then why be 40 days of cleansing if you give birth to a boy, but eight days when you have a girl? Leviticus 12, 2:5. Why were there no women priests then? The laws of concubines. You know, there's a law of concubines, the laws around polygamy. Bride price. Why would there be a bride price? Funny thing about those who speak against bride price is that when they want to divorce, they share assets and collect money. Everybody just says what is good for them in their own world. You know, other questions that can arise is the language of the Old Testament. Appears like women were treated like property. In fact, Even the Exodus 20, Thou shalt not covet. And he's talking about a woman like a property. You know, those are issues that will arise that you need to solve.

Once again, our theology model must not change. If Moses wrote those laws and we said that what he presented. Please wake up guys. What did he present as ideal? Genesis 1 and 2, because there he said it was good. So he had presented an ideal in Genesis 1 and 2 when he says, male and female created he them, there was equality there. And he called both of them Adam. So humanity is the same. Then again, I want you to pay attention to something that Moses has done. Then in okay, Genesis 2, let me add another 24, there shall be one flesh. Then again, it's. It's very interesting that in explaining the word aza, it was the woman he used. It will be your succorer, your deliverer, the one who will get you out of trouble.

It was the wife that he used, which we know is contrast both to marital laws, both to what is in practice, the Isa was now used subsequently directly for God. So that shows you is a redemptive statement. I want one more or two more. In the ideal or what he presents in Genesis, you find again that it was a seed of man that will bruise the end of the Sabbath. Now, there's another context around that. That is not woman, that is man. Well, I used to. I did agree. I disagreed with that. That is the seed of man, but really the seed of the woman. Following the context of Genesis 4, when she said, the Lord has appointed to three, then four a seed. Notice that upon leaving the Garden of Eden, it was only Eve's utterances we had.

So if anybody was a spokesperson, it was Eve. Genesis. The last thing we had Adam say was the woman you gave me. All right, verse 12. In Genesis 4, we don't hear anything from Adam. We hear from Cain, not from Abel. So again, the person who makes an utterance was Eve. I was going to. Be a bit controversial because we have little bit of pronoun issues. Let's leave that. But the point is, in the ideal that Moses presents here, he doesn't present anyone greater than the other. So this is what the children of Israel must have read before any such practices. Once again, Genesis 1 is the ideal. So our issue should be what now happened after. Once again, we cannot take away their culture of their day from what Moses seeks to rectify. God, we have seen over time will do two things.

He will walk within what is available, the culture, the systems, and he will do as much as possible to protect people within the weakness of the system. Do we still find a kind of discrimination against women? Oppression? Yeah, but in comparison to their world, far better. But equally, men were also discriminated. We're going to see it, you know, in a larger picture shortly. And as we continue on Tuesday. Now, within the writings of Moses, you will find things that look like I said earlier, a discrimination which will require interpretation. But before we get to the, you know, those naughty areas, let's first of all accept that they lived in a heavily patriarchal system, which we still predominantly exist today, where till now you bear your husband's name. Of course, not every culture, people have changed and all of that.

The concept of marriage is also very cultural. That one I wish churches can understand it. And if you look at from God's word, there is no method, custom system of marriage, rather the principle that is within the scripture. So when you find people talk about white wedding, red wedding and all that, they don't even know the History, you know, and from the scripture, like I said, often to people, when people are married from the world and they come to church, what do we call them? Married? We don't say, you are not new creatures. So when you come to church, that already shows you it's surrender to culture, concept of marriage and all of those things. Those are cultural things. Yes. God will ask us to walk within our culture. You know, the principle of faith and love will be found.

I mean, I used to say oftentimes that Kenneth Hagin was an unknown theologian to many people. You know, one day, okay, I was saying this and I said, what is the overall principle, what you call it, the motive interpretation. That for example, if you know someone's motive, where you fail to understand his use of words, the motive will explain it to you. Now motive interpretation means that I know that God seeks to rescue fallen man and his motive is love. So a way to interpret scripture, even when this is how I let it begin and I didn't understand it until recent years. He said, every time that you ask yourself what would the love of God do? That you are simply interpreting God's will.

I didn't really get it, you know, but years down the line, I can see what he's saying, that there is a motive interpretation that. Okay, I don't, I'm not there with the writer. I don't know why he used these words. But from gathering the facts of his writings, I know that he is a love God, a love being. So whatever he is doing is a love action to collect something. So can therefore interpret God's sorry, the scriptures in the light of God's love. That's why when it comes to knowledge and areas where scriptures are not, I would say, clear, where we don't have the kind of express instructions we have today. Say, what would love do? So I love would therefore be that overall overriding principle. Now. So I mean, that was something that helped my own interpretation of scripture personally.

So knowing fully well that in their world they had the patriarchal system, it's still existing today. I mentioned marriage. I was going to say that is something that somebody said, which is the real marriage? Is it the one that you do in customary court? Is it the one that you do? This one? It depends on the world. If you now go to different societies, there are societies they ask you to bring family. Some two people can walk in like this. I remember, was it Britney Spears? She walked in, got married, I think three hours after divorced, and they are legitimate if you ask Jesus were they married, he'll say yes, but your spirit was not there. Do you get it? The woman in the well. He said, thou hast had five husbands. You should close your ears when you hear that.

In other words, he did. And for you to know that he the clarity of the world. I remember a guy pointed out to me, he said, the man that you are with is not your husband. Which means that he wasn't just talking about, oh, you are sleeping with somebody. No, he made that. He said, it's not your husband. Now the question is, who in Israel will have joined them? Who? So it's. Those areas that I believe. The church just subsumed himself to a latent culture and didn't think through. People ask, which one is my. Is it the one they do in the way you do it? There's one on Friday engagement, one on Saturday church. Then you'll have gone to court. Don't deceive yourself. Do you understand? All of them are recognized. The church one and the one they do in the family.

They are the same. Just part A and B of the same thing. Church wedding is traditional wedding. We are just celebrating and having fun. Except where the church is so licensed, you know. And the difference is just the rights that are accrued to individuals. For example, though I don't think there's much in Nigeria because I don't know how people win anything. People are smart now. They take their property. If you fight me. You know, when he was in a divorce, the man when he went to marriage, when they were in love, real love. They were in love in America. He tricked her to come to Nigeria. He foresaw that he didn't cope. So you can come back. Let us though there's not a provision that even if you marry Nigeria, I have things in the US you come back.

So people have now become very wise. So the man just took the company. I don't want to mention. I. I don't want to give you any hint. He just took the company and he didn't mind though. He knew something will happen. I don't know how he knew. He just gave it to some people. The one did not know. So when she was going to court and say, okay, let us look at. Are you telling me that your friend Land is not another company? There's not only anymore. You know, that man is prophetic. He took out America. Let's do it at home. You know, home people are there, come to Nigeria. The other truth is that it's cultural. There are different systems there's even one country that they insisted that all this is a law, that everybody must have two wives. It's a law.