The only difference is that when it comes to the River Jordan, nobody was, nobody perished. But they crossed the River Jordan to go to Canaan, just like. And that's the second law, the Deuteronomy experience. So John, therefore. And John is now talking about a messiah, a deliverer, and he's talking about a kingdom. Sins are taken away. Then he mentions the Lamb of God, John 129, that is Exodus. Are you there? Are you following? That's an Exodus narrative. So by saying that to suffer all righteousness, to fulfill all righteousness, that is the eschatological meaning, right? All righteousness. Which means that we are fulfilling the crossing of the Red Sea. And by the time you go to the Epistles, it talks about the death, burial and resurrection of Jesus by baptism. Romans 6, 3, 5, 6.

So already we have seen that righteousness, therefore was used by Jesus as fulfillment of scriptures. Fulfillment of scriptures fulfilled. So if you know that, okay, that's what he's doing. And upon that baptism, the next thing we see is that the Spirit of God is seen on him. Then he says, he that baptize you with the Holy Ghost. You know, Matthew 3, 11 and 12 and all of that. So you already see the Exodus narrative within the background. Matthew 5, 6. Now notice it. So let me. So let's. We need to use a contrast so that you understand what we are trying to explore. If I thought that righteousness meant you sinned, you are no longer a sinner. It doesn't fit in there, right? To fulfill all righteousness. It can't be that. Because Jesus is not a sinner being made a saint. Is that clear?

Come on. Okay, so chapter five, verse six. Blessed are they which hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Thirst after righteousness. People always think that what he's saying is that thirst after good works. No, from the two texts we have seen so far, the righteousness. Does it look like what God will do? So hunger and thirst after righteousness already I've told you that when you look at Romans 1, righteousness must have the Gospel promise fulfilled. You get it? The Scriptures, the historical background of what God did from faithfulness to faithfulness. So I've given you a head start somewhere. So think about it. So we have here it says hunger and thirst after righteousness. Look at verse 20. I say unto you, except your righteousness shall exceed of the. Of course, the second righteousness italicized of the scribes and phrases.

You shall in no case enter into the kingdom. That is, if it is the word to exceed there means it is away from it is way above. It is a war to that has to do with difference. Let me show you something within the text of this Matthew 21. I know I shouldn't go there quickly, but it's good to quickly show you this. Matthew 21. Verily I say unto you, verse 31, that the publicans and the Allaks go into the kingdom of God before you. Okay, now he's talking to the Pharisees. The same people he addressed. For John came unto you in the way of righteousness. So you can see the Old Testament text is in view. Are you there? Come on guys, are you there? And he says, and you believed him not, but the Publicans and Allahs believed him.

And you, when you had seen it, repented not afterward that you might believe him. So what did he mean by exceed? The righteousness of the Pharisees. That is faith, right? Is that believing? So which means that believing is also called righteousness. Now believing without the promise, without the faithfulness of God will not be righteousness. So which means it comes with that, like I mentioned, big word on the concept of righteousness. I just went there quickly so that you understand exceed. What he meant by exceed, which means faith or to believe. Okay, let's see. Matthew 6:33. So when it says Seek ye first again. Another challenge we have had with some of these texts is that we don't take everything together. I was talking to somebody also. I wasn't. Yesterday I said sometimes we read scriptures in piecemeals we don't read in big chunks.

For example, you can Never understand Matthew 6:33 without starting from Matthew 5. 3. That's where you should start from. And you see the Matthew 5 righteousness, Matthew 5:20, righteousness and all he was calling righteousness till he go to Matthew 6:33. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and its righteousness and his righteousness and all other things shall be added his righteousness, Which is related with what John did at the baptism of Jesus. Okay, and the mission of Christ. I skipped Matthew 5:10. Please go there. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness sake, for theirs is the kingdom we Think that the kingdom is a reward? No, he's saying that. That righteousness, all right, is the kingdom of heaven. So we have persecuted for righteousness sake. Now let me. I'm doing this deliberately so that your theology can expand well enough.

I want you to look at this vis a vis. Righteousness means pardoning your sins. You are no longer guilty. You know that there's nowhere so far that has fitting because I gave you a head start to show you that to understand the Son of righteousness, it has to be the Jewish scriptures, the Old Testament scriptures. It has to relate with God's promise and God's faithfulness. So is there believing in it? Yeah, it is. But the truth is it can't be about faith that I'm justified. I'm no longer a sinner. No, no, no. Like I said, it's like mentioning a seat in a car. So you have. And I'm deliberately looking at it vis a vis the pardon. So how can you say men will persecute you because you are no longer a sinner? No.

Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness and all other things shall be added unto you. Another place you will find the word righteousness. But this, then it doesn't come from Jesus, but it's in prophecy. Is Luke 1. Luke's gospel 1. Why are you putting off the light? Luke's gospel 1:72,75. Sorry. Watch this. Let me start from verse 67. What's going on now? Let's just wait for them to be. Okay, you say I can continue, huh? Okay, maybe I should just continue and ignore all this. Okay, let's start from 68. Pray with the Lord God of Israel. For he had visited and redeemed his people and had raised up an honor of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spoke. Pay attention to verse 70.

As he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets which have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies and from the hand of all that hate us to perform the mercy promised to our fathers to remember the holy covenant. The word promises italicized the oath which he swore to our father Abraham. Please pay attention to that too. That he will grant unto us that we have been delivered out of the hand of their enemies. My servant without fear in holiness and righteousness before him all the days of our lives. So the concept of righteousness here seems to relate with the redemptive work all right here in prophecy. So so far we haven't seen any corroboration or righteousness being a pardon. Pardon. Or being. Or being justified. Okay.

Which I said earlier is a narrow prism for the subject of righteousness. Now look at first. Sorry, John 16 and verse 8. And when he, the spirit of truth is come, when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Then he says of sin, because they believe not on me. We will explore this later. Of righteousness. Because I go to my Father and you see me no more. So the concept of righteousness here is not a. It's a word that you have to unpack. Very well. Now look at the book of Acts 1035. In the house of Cornelius, But in every nation. This is Peter. He that fears him and walketh righteousness is accepted with him. Worketh righteousness. Acts 13:10. Now hold on. So far our view of righteousness has to do with something being done.

Right? Am I right? Okay, so now look at Luke. So Acts 13, verse 10. This is Elymas is sorcerer. Where Saul Paul, now filled with the Holy Ghost in verse nine, set his eyes on him and said, O full of all subtility and all mischief, thou child of the devil, enemy of all righteousness, will thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord? Now look at enemies of what now? The Gospel. Because that was what was in view. Where they were to preach the word. They preached the word. Acts 13:5, synagogues. Then the deputy called them, verse 7. To hear the word of God. Now, when you want to hear the word of God, you want to hear the Old Testament right, Jewish Scriptures. Which means that the subject of righteousness has to do with the Old Testament text. Now Acts 17.

31. Because he has appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he had ordained, whereof he had given assurance unto all men that he had raised him from the dead. So again you see related with the resurrection of Jesus Christ, whom he had ordained, again bringing in a promise that God made and fulfilled. Acts 24:25. I'll start from 24. After certain days when Felix came with his wife Drusilia, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul and heard him concerning the faith in Christ, as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance and judgment to come. Righteousness, temperance and judgment to come. And it is faith in Christ. Basically, what did Paul preach? Paul preached the Old Testament scriptures. Now, between Genesis, Roman, sorry, Matthew and Revelation, the word righteousness is between 95 and 97 times.

Paul's letters has it 64 times and the book of Romans 39. So the book of Romans is a major commentary on the subject of righteousness. So let's go for the various meaning of righteousness. It means to put it right, okay, or to be in the right is used for justice is used for rights, to put it in the right or to be in the right. So before we go to Romans, let's explore other places where Paul use the word righteousness. First Corinthians 1:30. Now the background of that is verse 18, the preaching of the cross, which is the power of God. 24 Christ, the power of God, the wisdom of God, Christ fulfilling scriptures and all that. 30 Of him. Are you in Christ Jesus? Who of God is made unto us righteousness? So this is God's righteousness.

So God's righteousness is Christ's death and resurrection. First Corinthians 15:34 Awake unto righteousness and sin not for some have not the knowledge of God. I speak this to you as again, the context of 1 Corinthians 15 is the resurrection of Christ because it says in verse 11:12 now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? So when it says awake unto righteousness in 34, that is still in view, the resurrection from the dead what God has done. 2Nd Corinthians 3 and verse 9 For if the ministration of condemnation be glory, much more does the ministration of righteousness exceed in glory. Now all you need to do is to just keep reading and in chapter four you talk about the gospel and Christ raised from the dead.

2Nd Corinthians 5:21 he who knew no sin, he had made him sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him, the putting right of God. 2Nd Corinthians 6:7 by the word of truth, by the power of God, the armor of righteousness. The armor of righteousness, also called the armor of God. The armor of Christ. Verse 14. Second Corinthians 6 Be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship at righteousness with unrighteousness. Pay attention, please. Critical communion or light with darkness? It is his light. Okay, what conquered at Christ with Belial? He is Christ. What part? He that believes and an infidel that is the beneficiary of what he has said.

What agreement the temple of God with idols or for you at the temple of the living God as He has said, that's Exodus 29:45 I will walk in them, dwell in them I'll be their God, they shall be my people. So this is what God is doing, which is referred to as his righteousness now. 2Nd Corinthians 9:9 he that dispersed abroad, he had given to the poor. His righteousness remains forever his righteousness remains forever. 2Nd Corinthians 9:10 now he that ministers seed to the sower, both minister bread for your food, and multiply your seed sown and increase the fruit of your righteousness. That's giving. 2Nd Corinthians 11:15. There is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as the ministers of righteousness, which is the Scriptures, God's promise and what God has done. Galatians 2:21.