There are two accounts that they are very similar in Exodus chapter one is very fair to see it. Exodus chapter one. We find that the midwives feared God in 17 and did not as the king commanded, but saved the men children alive. When they asked them the questions, they simply said, because Hebrew women as not as the Egyptian women, for they are lively and delivered ere the midwives come unto them that they quickly gave birth before we even got to them. In Joshua chapter two, we find Rahab also preserved the life of the spies. Which means that. And I said, people, you see, no matter when you say I'm a man of integrity, I don't do that. I don't do that.

Assuming people come after your child or your brother or your spouse, or even after you, and you see them decked up in guns, I would say we're asking for Mr. John White. And that's your name. You say, well, you will say from where? You say, he lives down the road. Or they ask you, is there any child in the house? You will say, no, it is not a sin. It's very clear. How do you think Paul was hid? Where is he? Was here? And two thirds of the New Testament was preserved. Do you get it? Was preserved. That's not a lie. In fact, it is an act of faith. By faith, Moses was hidden. That means that where life is preserved. That's not selfishness. Rahab was not selfish. Listen carefully. Because in fact she put her life at risk.

The midwives put their lives at risk. Something very similar to the love of God in Christ Jesus. And it says to us that it is by the faith in the faithfulness of God. Now let me throw in one joker. Can we classify this with Abraham and his wife Sarah? She is my sister. Can we classify that? Was it preserving lives? How are you Quiet. Think about it. So we have that in the way we define things. What I said now, I've been trying to see for about 10 years. I was almost saying it. I said, no. That day were at this place, Chick Africa. I was using law in Genesis. Yeah, almost 10 years. I always say it earlier, but I said it before. But it's not recorded. And I was glad. 2007 So netting exam. I was so glad that was not recorded.

You will just be twisting what you are saying now with a lot of background information. You know what I'm. I'm saying, I hope so. I just hope. I hope so. Now let's go further, because you have to. Now look at. You know, we said that the. Why are you there? We said the why has more weight than the what? Hope you haven't forgotten that. And today in the. In the. Even the justice system of the world, they look at the intent. Was he intending to make something for himself? Did you. How much is the change? You say it's 40 naira and it is 80 naira. That one is lie. Do you get it? But here, in these two instances, lives were preserved. And not just lives, not just ordinary lives said by the faithfulness of God. Are you following what I'm saying?

The other things I may take 10 years to say again, but this one, the one I've said, my heart is still shaking. In light of other things, there are some things you will say after 50 years of teaching. They say, now, I think I can see this one now. You know. So we have a whole lot to look at in history. We have said in the beginning of this series that there is. You have to look at their world. You cannot. You. It would be very unfair to pick Israel out of all nations of the world and say as though the Israel you are referring to is a nation down the road. No, you have to go to their world. Who are the Canaanites? Again, don't forget that in Genesis 12:3 we have said that. Does this mean.

Because some people have said that God created what you can call racism, ethnic cleansing, bigotry. I told you on Saturday that when I was in the Faculty of Law, my lecturer, she's a professor now. He was as a professor. Then she said that the Bible is the root cause of chauvinism, female discrimination, ethnic cleansing, bigotry and all of that. I raised my hand and I debunked it. But the only one I could answer was the female one. I understood that one. I dodged the other ones because I didn't have answers to why you will pick Israel and say go against Amorites and clear them. But now we do, because just reading it in context and in his world will let you see Genesis 12:3. In you shall all the nations of the earth be blessed.

So that means that the background of the entire conquest Israel had God's intention of blessing every nation. You find that in Genesis. The second thing you will also see. I think, okay, and of course, that would include Canaan. I think we can also look at Genesis 1:26, 28. From One Blood God made all men. And that's what Paul was saying in Acts 17. Then we have the. We mentioned that Genesis 14. Notice that Genesis 14. I think I need us to understand something there. In Genesis 14, Abraham bowed to Melchizedek it's significance that he paid the tithe. Oh my God, I hope this thing, this is not going to be used against me. He paid the tithe. People hear something. He took the 10 that is in their world. That is the way you worship a higher being, a higher authority. He takes it.

He is like he's one of the forefathers of Israel. He takes 10%. So you can see that the writer of Hebrews in Hebrews 7 had an underlining message that as it were, the father of the Jews paid tribute to a Gentile minister, a Gentile king and prince. And if you look at it very well, where Israel was laying claim to the king of the place, who is in the order of Christ's kingdom, was a Gentile. You know, when David was going to prophesy, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand till I make the use of this truth. What he has done, he first of all puts aside his own kingdom. Then he now says, thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. And Melchizedek was from Canaan.

So there's no way God will be therefore judged or being biased against anyone. Don't also forget that in Genesis 12 he related very well, that is Abraham with Egyptians, Egypt. We've seen God's warmth towards Egypt through Joseph as well. Even that is later on in Genesis. I will see his warmth towards Egypt through Abraham. Genesis 12. In Genesis 20 a whole lot of Gentile stories are in the book of Genesis. Genesis 20 same Abraham with the Philistines. Look at Genesis 26, what God said to Abimelech. Abimelech is a Philistine. So you will see God's dealings with all these nations before the wars. Genesis 26 I know that what you did in the integrity of your heart, for I also withheld you from sinning against me. Therefore I suffered you not torture.

So there's no way you would not say this one was a righteous man and he's not an Israel who's following what I'm saying here. So we had enough background information before we get to the world. They were never discriminatory. Then don't forget Again, in Exodus 12:38 it was permitted or recorded that Israel left with a mixed multitude. There are different theories to that. But let's stick with what we have. A mixed multitude. They had intermarried, so they left with none by marriage. They had non Jews were part of them. In Numbers 12:1 Moses married an Ethiopian, a cushite that's usually used for dark skinned people, maybe from the coast of Africa. ISWA as well, in Joshua 6:23, don't forget that Rahab herself was integrated into Israel and she was a Canaanite.

Yet we have achan in Joshua 7 who was put to death because he stole goods from Jericho. So while we are finding an Israelite rejected in the same family, a non Israelite was accepted. What else do we have? We have quite a number of other things we probably would equally look at as we go further. And so you can see the background of what Paul wrote in Romans 1:3. And it says, both Jew and Gentile will not be at time the same. Same table, that is that all men will be found guilty, whether you are Jew, for all have sinned. You see the context now. All have sinned and come short. It was referring to Jews and Gentiles that you are not righteous because you are born a Jew, neither are you unrighteous because you are born a Gentile.

All have sinned, that is all these Jews and Gentiles which he has the story that he writes in Genesis, Romans 1:3 have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Like we saw earlier in Leviticus 19:34. Pay attention. And Deuteronomy, chapter 10, verse 18 to 19, you find that Israel was equally told to be kind and fair to non Israelites as a nation. Why was this said? Look at Deuteronomy, chapter 10, verse 18, He doth execute 1018, he doth execute judgment of the fatherless and widowless, and love the stranger in giving him food and raiment. Do you know why love you therefore strangers, for you were strangers in the land of Egypt. So can you see that there is no basis therefore for saying God inspired a genocide? No basis. I told the Lord strangers, they had already interwoven with strangers about.

And if I stretch into the Pauline revelation, we ask himself a question, Abraham himself, who was he? So what we can therefore say is that yes, God gives humanity freedom to choose, but nobody, not even today, not a normal justice system determines the consequences of his choices. We might have to investigate how does justice happen? Now that shouldn't be a problem because again, Genesis 1 and 2 tells us that the day you sin, you will die. Romans 5:12. Sin enters the world and death by sin. But we need to investigate it in light of every scenario. So the question is, what does God's judgment mean? God's action or his inaction in his action, his inability or his unwillingness or his non saving power is seen in an active sense. If I don't save you, I have done something. I did not save you.

If I saved you, I've done something, I have saved you. Now, because of the tenses and the use of the Hebrew language, the inaction is put in an active tense. As we are going to see human justice was granted or executed by human beings. Look at the non human aspect later. So is there room to look at the Old Testament laws and instructions and then submit that there must be racism? No. Or ethnic discrimination? No. Let's see a couple of permissions that were granted in Israel, according to their laws, the stranger had the same rights as the native person. Leviticus 24, verse 22. I think we did this on Saturday. That if you look at really the issue they found had to do with idol worship. Can you remember? That is the core issue. 24:22. And you shall reap the harvest of your land.

Thou shalt not make clean reedants of the corners of thy field. When thou reapest, neither shall thou gather any glean of thy harvest. Thou shalt leave them. Unto the poor and to the stranger, I am the Lord your God. Unto the poor and to the stranger, I am the Lord your God. Look at numbers 35, 15. These 60 shall be a refuge for both the children of Israel and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them. And everyone that kills any person unawares may flee neither. Do you remember that when Solomon was dedicated temple, he said, if a stranger shall come to death this place and he wants to worship you will hear him. That's why Jesus said that my house, it shall be called the house of prayer for all nations. And he was talking about the book of Jeremiah.

And he says, you, the Jews, who are supposed to be custodians, have made it a den of brigandage. So there's nothing of such that brings desire, discrimination, even the Passover. Numbers nine, a key remembrance of the Exodus, of which we said, strangers move with them through in the Exodus by a mixed multitude. Numbers 9 and verse 14. If a stranger shall sojourn with you among you. Sorry. And keep the passover to the Lord according to orders of Passover, and according to the manner thereof, so shall he do. You shall have one ordinance, both for the stranger and for him that was born in the land. So therefore, if we had Rahab, we also had Ruth, you know, Ruth also was a Gentile. We had Ruth, we had, you know, other people like that in their history.