Because God promised them a land and they were not there. Why is the kingdom peculiar? Because there were kingdoms in this world. His own will be different. So all of that becomes the context of how we read the Old Testament. The exile therefore becomes the context of God's promise. The tyranny, the kingdom patterns that they have will all be based on the context of Genesis. What did God promise? What did he say? So the kingdom will come out of the nation, will come out of salvation. The kingdom will come out. It's not come out of commerce. It's going to come out of salvation. It's going to come out of a Messiah. It's going to come out of a family or a congregation. So we discover again that Moses definitely two things are similar. Moses shows us how Abraham refused political power.

He rescued Lot, and the kings came to him. And he says, no, I'm not taking anything from you. Take the tithe of everything. And he went his way. We also found Moses, who had to leave Pharaoh's political power to worship God and leave people to worship God. Very, very similar. In other words, from the patriarchs, rather from Abraham. Or you look at Moses, we see a sharp delineation between the kingdom of God and political power. It therefore becomes necessary to see that political power is man made. It is how men organize themselves to run themselves. Abraham refused it, and Moses equally ran away from it. Yet within the expansion of Scripture, we will find those events happen. You find a king like David, who had political power, yet say, there is another king. I am not the king. He is the king.

So the context of their statement is to view them with the Genesis 1 to 2, then the sharp divide of 3 and 4. Then you look at the context of how the promise was made. A land was promised then. That land promised now was to be a seed and a nation. And in that seed and nation is a kingdom that was distinct from the kingdoms of this world. So when Jesus comes in, my kingdom is not of this world. He's not being creative. He's only affirming what had been done before. Yet again, the context of the things that were said was now they were in exile. And so you found the exile position was where we had much of the prophets. Isaiah, to a large extent, Jeremiah, Ezekiel, okay, Jonah went to Nineveh.

You had Uzziah, you had Amos, you had Nehemiah, and all of that. They were at that point in exile. In other words, they had other kings that was not their own king. And God says, no, I will be the king. When they chose Saul, he said, I was meant to be their king, but let them be again. Whether Samuel agreed or not, they wanted a king. Okay, let them have a king. Then God now chose David. Does it not look like God has now agreed to what he already know? David now said, my Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand. David now reaffirmed the promise of Abraham by saying, God is going to take out of my own children, and then he will raise a king.

When he said that he was still the king, that is why the expected king was the son of David. Do you understand it? So at those moments, those prophecies were meant to what they are meant to intimate. This is not it. So while they were in exile, God reminded them of the kingdom. But yet in their mind they were looking for a return of David or the Davidic, Solomonic maybe to an extent, where they would fight at their own territories. And then they found themselves with Herod, who was not the son of David. And there they are still agitating, and Jesus comes and says, I'm that son of David. And right in their mind, they expecting a military ruler. Then he dies on the cross.

So which means that whenever we now read kingdom, looking at what Jesus has done, we go back and see that really he was not creative. The kingdom that Jesus established had been explained in the Old Testament. The kingdom we saw in the political power was merely to point to what was not political. Yet again, let us remind ourselves that the characters that God had to use were flawed characters. We had mentioned Noah through to Moses. Paul will say it reigned from Adam to Moses. In what way and what format? He said, even over them that are not sinned after the spirit of Adam's transgression. Which implies that all the patriarchs, none of them was innocent. Abraham was one of the people Paul was referring to Romans 5, 13, 14. What now made them stand out was their loyalty to God, not their morality.

None was perfect. We said earlier, Abraham was a liar, Moses was a murderer. David, of course afterwards, was a power rapist. So ask me what God could make do with. He had to settle for near. I don't want to say near perfect. The best he can get out of the worst. So this is the background of the Old Testament. Therefore our understanding of Scripture must stem from understanding Genesis 1 and 2 and what happened in Genesis 3. If we ignore that history, then we defeat the context of the entire Old Testament. We must see what God wanted and what man did and how man spread the influence of that selfishness from Adam through to Moses and afterwards. And within that period, God in his faithfulness was looking at those who would still be loyal to Genesis 1 and 2.

So in those instances, he found Abel, he found Noah, he found Enoch. Sorry, he found Noah. Then obviously he found other people, found Abraham, Isaac, Jacob and all of that. Moses, Joseph. He found men that even though they were not moral, they weren't perfect. That's not Jesus. But they had the loyalty to God's. Genesis 1 and 2. Let me see how you understand that. Very well. So within these characters, Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, according to the story. It's quite a convoluted statement, which means we may have to go to the Scriptures and see why Christ had to die and see the place and the role of the Messiah in the frailties of all the characters that we'll find. So therefore our studies of the Old Testament must take into cognizance the historical realities.

There's a mortal man, there's a failing man, and God will have to make do with what he has. History therefore buttresses the fact that humanity without God was exactly what it was, brutish, harsh, bad, wicked, hard hearted. So in sending his servants at different times and seasons, he simply incrementally led them to Jesus. Jesus there is God's man is the Genesis 1:26 28 man, where every. There's neither male nor female born nor free. We all find oneness in the person of Jesus. That should be very clear to us. So let's touch one more thing. Is that one? Yeah, one more thing. And then go back to Matthew. So therefore we discover that in the laws of Moses we have two dividing lines. One of them was theological and it was the most important.

How you see and worship God, then social, how you interact, what you do with women, what women do with men, and all of that. The theological aspect of it will be, as it were, almost ideal, if not ideal. Worship the Lord your God, him alone would you serve. There's no stepping down on that. There is no incremental understanding of that. Your loyalty to God must be absolute and it's expressed by faith in Him. Then built on that, or built around that are social laws. And maybe you can call some of them also economic laws. Those ones really can change how you interact, what you do to each other.

That basically is to either step down on what was being done before, where it's harsh and brutal, or step up where it's supposed to be fair, then raise the level of justice higher than it was before. So what simply Moses did was he had theology believe God. Then he had the responsibility to build the social system around that theology. Now that social system need not be perfect. It just needs to better than what was around before. Where you say, what do you do to somebody who kills another person? What do you do to somebody who takes somebody's wife? What do you do to this person? The question is, what was being done before? In view of your sight and worship of God, what should you do? Should we start from the perfect? Nobody's going to do it.

Let's see what can be done at the least. Okay, let's change this a bit. That was what Moses was doing. So while theology will remain the same, the Lord God is the God of Isaac, Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. The social systems will be altered to fit into their day. Like I said, to step it down where there are two ash, just a little bit gradually, till you come to Jesus, or to step it up where they are, just to raise the standard, if at all. Yet when it comes to theology, they maintain the same thing. It remains the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. While the practices may not be the same, but the worship is the same. So you can put it like this. If I had to draw on the board, I'll say theology remains high up there, unaltered and eternal.

The social or sociology, how they interact will now be amended as time went on. And then the economic laws too will follow the same pattern. So therefore, when I'm reading, I must understand the context of their day. I say, well, in their day, based on their idol worship, this was their system of justice. This was their system of socialization. If I'm going to reform them, I must do that incrementally. But theology must remain one and the same. Let me see if you understand that. That must be the way you read it. For example, someone now ask, but didn't you hear that you can't take away from the law or add to it? Well, I'm sure that what you read was Romans 4:2, where you say you cannot add to it or take away from it.

I guess angel said that somewhere in Revelation too pill 4 2. Notice what he's talking about. You shall not add unto the world which I command you, neither shall you diminish from it. Shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you. The question is, what is he talking about? Look at verse 15 and 18. Take heed, therefore, good to yourselves, for you saw no manner of similitude in the day that the Lord God speak to you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire, lest you corrupt yourselves and make you a graven image.

The simutive of any figure, likeness of male or female, likeness of any beast that is on the earth, likeness of a windfall that flies in the air, the likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the sea. Pay attention. Notice that he doesn't mention likeness of a man, his male or female gender, likeness of any beast that is in the earth. So when he said, you cannot add or take away, he's talking about the worship of God. You cannot in any way create an idol. That's what he's talking about. But as touching the dietary laws, social laws, they have been added to and taken away from. Hope, that's very clear to you. Is that very clear? But the one you cannot add or take away is the worship of God.

That he is the one and only true God, and there's none before him and there's none after Him. He can't be worshiped as a thing or as a figure of a human being. He can't be worshiped, you know, as a windfall. He can't be worshiped as anything in nature that cannot be added to, that cannot be taken away from. But as we have seen, the other social laws added to and taken away from as incrementally the nation is taken through a process of reformation. Hope, we are making sense. So in my study, therefore I must separate which one is theology, which one is sociological, which one is economic. While the first one is non negotiable, the second and third will be. I guess the question that will arise in your heart should be, shouldn't everything be in the worship of God? I realized that.

But then in that instance, in our relationship with each other, that understanding of how God intends to treat one another will increase with time and it won't get better or perfect till God himself shows us what he's talking about. And that happens in the person of Jesus. Hope, we are making sense. So therefore, what Israel will be held responsible for the most are not the dietary laws or social laws. It is love the Lord your God with all your heart and soul. That is the greatest of it. And he says the second is like the first. Love your neighbor as yourself, or do unto others as you want done to you. And she just said, upon these two hangs everything. And that language means, see, every other thing is built on this. If you do this one without, the other is in vain.