Jesus Christ. As we study further about the truths of the Old Testament, but events in there to see your mind, we ask that you clarify more thoughts to us this evening, that our minds be open to revelation knowledge. Let there be no error in this atmosphere. Let there be no assumptions or presumptions. Together as a church, together we behold Jesus Christ your Son, as he sees us in him. He is glorified and we're edified. Amen. Praise the Lord. 1 Corinthians 15. First Corinthians 15 this one Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received and wherein you stand. And then it says, by which also you are saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain.

For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried and rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. And then verse 11 says therefore, because whether it were high or they, so we preach, and so you believed. And then verse 20 now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection from the dead? Then he says in 14 if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain? And your faith is also vain. 17 And if Christ be not raised from if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. You are yet in your sins.

And these are fundamental, what I call it, total submission of the writings and readings of the Old Testament lighted that earlier on now we said that the book of Isaiah is where the concept of the gospel is from. And so you can't discuss gospel without discussing exile. Without discussing exile. That's the first thing. You can't have the gospel without curses, because that's the concept of Isaiah 52. There must be exile situation and then the return of the king in verse 7, Isaiah 52, verse 7. And so we've now said that because we are coming to the very end of it in the sense of we are coming to the interpretation before we go to the question. The interpretation says that the exile is sin. You are yet in your sins in verse 17. Your faith is vain in verse 14.

So the washolion, which is the return of the king or the restoration of the kingdom, will set for us the background of we ask, what then is the exile? Like we said in the natural Israel, when Jesus physically came, had an exile position too, even though they were in the land, they had another kingdom superimposing itself over their kingdom. And that Already shows you the background of the gospel, which is what we want to relate with. So we have to discuss kingdom and kingdoms and the relationship with what is the gospel today in its facts. Now, on Monday, which I want to just highlight something I probably said towards the end. We're still looking at the wars, the war situation. And on Monday we examined Hebrews chapter 11 again. I'll just read it for the purpose of the story. Just read it.

And where the writer of Hebrews we said it gives the narratives of war defense, the narratives of deliverance from slavery that had to do with war. This one, I'll just stretch it a bit back. Let's start from verse 31. By faith the allot Rahab perished not with them that believe not when she had received the spies with peace. We've done this study already. So some people perish, he says, because they did not believe. And we have seen what he did not believe in verse 32. What shall I more say?

For the time will fail me to tell of Gideon and of Barak, of Samson, Jephthah, David and Samuel, and of the prophets, who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mount of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Women received their dead again to life, raised to life again. And others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection. And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. These were stoned, or they were stoned, they were sown asunder, were tempted, were slain. So was it just all a case of a physical deliverance?

It says they wandered about in sheepskins, goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. And the background is set before we get to the war situation. You discover that the war situations began from the Exodus. And so the Exodus again is the wandering nation. Then the Exodus is another background of bondage, where Moses was born in verse 23 found that, of course, you know that story very well. The other sons and children were killed. He was preserved, and then he had to flee at some point, and then he came back. But look at verse 27. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible.

So you can see there's a pursuit Again, the killing of the Egyptian is not mentioned here. So a couple of things will not be justified, even though they are part of the story. Through faith he kept the Passover. And that's what I want us to stay with. He kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them. Then he says, by faith they are saved through the pass, through the sea, Red Sea, as by dry land, which the Egyptians are said to do, were drowned by faith, the walls of Jericho fell down after they were compassed about seven days. Now, notice that from the concept of the Exodus to the last story we read, it was a case of escaping war or sorry, escaping violence or escaping bondage.

So the context of the war again is set in what the writer of Hebrews here has done. Now let's keep that. We'll come back there and do what I call character theology. And this is something we'll probably pick up later on. But I'll just give you a background here that whenever you say the Scriptures, according to the Scriptures in 1 Corinthians 15, 3 and 4, that is the word characters, graphace. Graphas is where you have graphe, grapho, that which is written. And it was written by men. Second Timothy 3, 15. From a child. Thou hast known the Holy Scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus. All scriptures given by inspiration of God. Poverty, production, reproof, correction, instruction, righteousness. Now, when you say written even before what you our references today about the Holy Scriptures.

The word scriptures just means something that is written, documented historically. And it's never for a supernatural writing. It's always a natural writing. Somebody wrote it. Even though this is inspired Theonistos 2nd Timothy 3, 16. It shows therefore that characters there are individual characters that are involved. Approximately, it's called 40 authors, 40 or 39 wrote. So we need, we need to now look at the characters. That is, God walked through the characters. We said something on Monday. I think I need to go back here. We said God's means were not efficient. Can you remember that? But they were sufficient. That is. What do I mean by that? What do we mean by that? Is to say what was really available? What was available was not efficient enough.

Because Paul tells us that death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the simultaneous of Adam's transgression. Who or what which was the figure of that which is to come. Romans 5, 13 and 14. So if it rained, or madam to Moses and one of the characters we have is Abraham, who was declared righteous. Genesis 15, 6, Romans 4, 3, 5 says that, you know, God counted not his ungodliness or his sins, he justified the ungodly. That's one of the characters. So we have a character there that on face value and more than that, he is not. He is bent, he is bent, he is twisted, and yet God has to use him. So whatever God will use is not efficient, but it's sufficient.

I'll give you an illustration I tried to write here, for example, look at first aid. They say, did you give the person first aid? And somebody collapses and a first aid is not to be used. It's not something I don't expect to see. First aid in the hospital, for example, that would be strange. I entered the doctor's room and I see first aid. I says, I'm just in case anything happens in this world, we use this on you. Am I sure? I'm not in the primary school training doctors. So first aid is used in the home where it is not necessarily efficient, but for the purpose it is going to be sufficient because you are not trained to do it. They also do this at this point, do that at this point, and so on and so forth.

So we have that is sufficient, but it's not efficient, which means it's just enough to get you to where what is efficient will take over. So we only have what is sufficient because that's what is available. And then we have to bring in God's wisdom in using what is sufficient to get to what is efficient. That is the weaknesses that we find with man's sins, man's iniquity. And that takes us back to that Genesis 50:20 that I said is an highlight of the Old Testament, of all the lineage of Abraham, if you ask me, who was closest to Jesus? Not Abraham, not Isaac, not Jacob, it was Joseph. Joseph had, except his forward speaking, which he obviously changed after a while. Joseph had a near no blemish life.

In fact, his lifestyle, just like when he, you know, ran away from Potiphar's wife, will show a very morally upright guy, you know, he was morally upright or straightforward. He was given a whole lot to pretend over based on that kind of character recommendation. Then he makes a very important statement in Genesis 50:20 when his brothers in apology and wondering, no, well, when he was talking to his own brethren and just having a conversation, then he says, look, but as for you thought evil against me. God meant it for good to bring you to pass there, to save much People alive at that. That is there was. Let's look at it in this instance. The end product is to preserve a nation in famine. Okay, what will have been efficient?

What would have been efficient would be, okay, let's now the supply is in Egypt. Let's just inform everybody, we take a flight or any means we get to Egypt, we stay there and then we just tell Egypt we are here or want to be preserved. And then Egypt will say, oh yeah, you guys don't want to be hungry, right? So you stay and you'll be fine. So you say, no, Egypt would never do that. Why? Because there's already evil in Egypt. The Egyptians are, you know, they are bestial. They are all that. So how do you get there? It has to be through slavery. So slavery will take you to Egypt, right? And then within that period, what will happen. Normally, Pharaoh will kill somebody for offending him. So somebody is in prison who is preserved, interprets the dream of one of the prisoners.

He gets back, he forgets just human beings. I mean, it's never going to be efficient. And he gets there, oh, I remember a guy like that in. And they say, who is he? They bring the guy, he appreciates the king's dreams. And eventually the brothers who had done evil, no doubt evil they would have done anyway. Evil that would have happened anywhere. So their brother, who they felt was, you know, being loved by their dad. Now if you are here and you say that has never happened to your family before, may God forgive your sins. Where you feel, why do they like this guy? I imagine how many brothers? Just one fellow. You have just three children and you're already beefing the person, you have 12. So he goes ahead. And then that means the means are not efficient, but they are sufficient.

So we look at the wisdom of God there. He wants to preserve a whole nation. He preserves that nation just like he promised Abraham. He preserves that nation using their iniquities, which he does not endorse. So which means it is not efficient, but it is sufficient. Just like the cross of Jesus. How else will Jesus go to Hades and then reign over sin and death? He can't do it as a man who has no injury on him. He has to surrender himself to sin and death for that to happen. You can't play a game and win somebody without going on the pitch with him. So Jesus had to go to the throes of death and sin to overcome it. So, but then where those means God, that means he will use Pilate, he will use Judas, he will use even the 12.