That word is katakrima. Judgment against. Judgment against. It is now in Romans 5:16, Not as well by one man, one that sinned. So is the gift. For the judgment was by one to condemnation. Judgment was by one to condemnation. Then he says in 18. But the offense of one came upon all men. Condemnation. That means that what Adam did, God judged against it. To judge, to give a judgment against. Now let's check the verb. The verb will help us. Katakrino is a verb. Catacreno. Matthew 12:41. So let me ask you, does the righteousness of God judge against evil? Yes. But to them who are in Christ, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Matthew 12:41. The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation, because I shall condemn it. Verse 42.

The Queen of the south shall rise up in judgment against generation, and shall condemn it, which shall speak against it. You find the same thing in Luke 11:31 and 32. Now in the trials of Jesus, that is the court trial of Jesus. Matthew 20:18, you find it used for him about him. Sorry. Behold, we go to Jerusalem, and the Son of man shall betrayed, and they shall condemn him to death. Condemn him to death. Katakrino. Matthew 27, verse 3. When he saw that he was condemned, Repent. That Judah saw he was condemned. Mark. Then Mark 10:33 and Mark 14:64, just about the same. Now look at something key here. You know, Jesus is saying here that the preaching of the Gospel will condemn unbelief. Did you see that in Matthew 12? Did you see it? Okay, left like this.

Faith in Christ, faith in God's righteousness condemns. That's why he said Nineveh will write in judgment. It's not that Nineveh is going to get up and begin to run after them in Israel is saying that their act of righteousness. Are you there? The act of doing what is right has judged what is wrong. Does it make sense? Does it make sense? Does it make sense? Okay, so now look at this here. Mark 1616. He that believes and is baptized shall be saved. He that believes not shall be Katachrino. John 8:10. The woman who was brought to Jesus because of adultery. Woman, where are your accusers? Hath no man judged against you and made a decision? Verse 11 Neither do I condemn you. Go and see no more notice. And I checked the Greek on the two occasions.

There was the undeniable Greek personal pronoun su, used 2,929 times. Jesus could not have said, neither do I condemn it. No, he said, condemn you, neither do I condemn you. Something that's figurative here is that she is with him. So he says Here that verse 12 I am the light of the world. He that follows me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. So neither did I condemn you. Which means therefore that light condemns darkness. John 3:20, it condemns darkness. Can we say exposes darkness? Would that be correct? Would that be correct? You know we are translating. Can we say exposes darkness? Okay, put it to shame. So katakrino will mean to bring judgment against Romans 2. 1, Who art thou? Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man.

Whatsoever thou art that judgeth, for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemns thyself. For thou that judgest doest the same things. You are condemning. You are already speaking against yourself. Romans 8:3. God condemns sin in the flesh. God didn't condemn Christ. That doesn't make sense. He condemned sin in the flesh. Romans 8:34. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Hear us again the wrath of God and makes intercession for us. Romans 1423. So righteousness condemns. It condemns sin, it condemns evil. Romans 14:23. And he that doubts is damned. If he eats, that is, he condemns himself. He speaks against himself. If he eats, that is, if you doubt something, then against your persuasion, you eat it. He said, you have just eaten damnation. You have spoken against yourself. That act of acting outside your persuasion, it exposes you.

It speaks judgment to what you have done. In 1 Corinthians 11:32, when he talked about sharing food. And those who don't share with those who have, don't share with those who have. It says in verse 32. But when we are judged, that is the word crino. When we are judged, that is what we are judged. When that distinction is made for us, that no, you cannot be selfish. Among believers. He says, we are chastened of the Lord corrected or the world, part of the old, to be disciplined, to be taught, and that we should not be condemned with the world. Which means that the reason for judging believers is because the believer is not taken in final full sentence with the world. So the reason for rebuke is because you are not of the world.

So when we come against the conduct of believers, are we judging it? And we're exposing darkness by the works of light. That is not making people feel guilty. That's not making people feel that they are not saved. That is not telling the whole world. No, in fact, what Paul is saying here is done by doctrine, teaching, correction and instructions. So we are not condemned with the world. We are judged so we could not be judged. Do you get it? Do you get it now? Okay, we are judged so that we are not judged. So, so we are not taken together with the world or separated with the world. All this is in that series I told you. Hebrews 11:7.

By faith, Noah, being warned of God, of things not seen yet, moved with fear, prepared an act to the saving of the house by which he condemned the world. So how did Noah condemn? By preaching 120 years. By that act he condemns the world, the old world. Peter will call it 2nd Peter 2. 6. The same thing was said. Noah in view, And turning the seeds of Soma and Gorah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example unto those that afterwards will leave godly again. You have unbelief, the background. Against evil, against unbelief. So we must ever be very wise in the use of the word condemnation and judgment. No, no, no. There's righteous condemnation. When a believer is walking in the light, he is judging darkness. When a believer is walking in love, he's judging hatred.

When a believer is walking in self control, he's judging immorality. When a believer is walking, there's walking in the spirit. Or righteousness is judging sin. So judgment is a component of God's. I know he will command his children after me. Diakosuli somewhere in the background, I don't know whether you feel it, there's Noah that is being flogged there. He will command his children after me. You have Noah in the background and somewhere, maybe lot too, they are dragged along and giving some, just some tapping. So a key factor we want to explore. We'll see all this in more brevity and detail if necessary. It therefore means that Matthew 5, 7, that popularly called Sermon on the Mount, was about righteousness. You have heard. Now I say notice there was a lot of comparisons in Matthew 5. Who noticed that?

You noticed that Matthew 5, you have heard. Now I say talking about the usual laws, the commercial laws. Then he points to the Father's conduct as the Diacozuli. So the promise of the Father in Scripture, the promise he gave to Abraham to Put into right. What had been wrong is the righteousness of God. We said that. Matthew 5. Did we read it here? Matthew 5:10, Spirit. Matthew 5. Yeah. Matthew 5:6. Matthew 5:10, Matthew 5:20, Matthew 6:33. Where you find the Gentiles, the godless. Matthew 6. The kingdom has come. Forgive like heavenly Father forgives. Don't hate people. So what you are seeing, therefore, is the comparison is put in the right. This is what has happened in the fallen world. This is the attempt of Moses to gradually take you to the righteousness of God. This is the journey there.

But now I say to you, so you find righteousness was the core of Matthew 5:7. And look at how it ends. It ends with a very cryptic parable where he says, the kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man. Two people, one of them a man that built his house upon the rock, another one upon the sand. Look at that. That is, you know, rock, the rock of our salvation, God is our rock, etc. Etc. All upon the sand. I said the winds came, and then he came down, said he that hears my words and doeth them. So the core of it is that the foundation. Therefore, righteous conduct is righteous believing. So right believing leads to right living. When you have right living without right believing, okay, that is works of personal righteousness.

Where the Pharisees were doing everything well in dressing, acting, all that, but. But their hearts didn't worship God, because in their heart they didn't accept the message of God's salvation. So where you have righteousness, therefore will have right believing then right living or living in the right or believing in the right, I want to change it to living in what is right and believing in what is right, I think that makes more sense. So when you hear righteousness, which Moses is attempting to do it by the laws that he gave to them, he says, now I'm the one saying to you, if they slap you one place, turn the other one. What? He says, one mile, go two miles. And who was the first person who fulfilled the law and condemned sin? He did it himself. So by his death, both pay attention.

Judicially speaking, judicial here, and spiritually speaking, he put the law to a conclusion. What do you mean by conclusion? It means this is the goal of the law. If I say, watch what I'm about to say. Now, if somebody says, ensure that you build a drainage in front of your house, what is the goal? The goal is so that the place doesn't get overflow. Now they can give different laws to ensure that water doesn't Just flood the whole place. They can say, make sure your house is six. You know, depending on the kind of people that are there. You can give them like 60 laws that when you do this one, you do that one. You can have 600 something laws just to ensure that at the end of the day you don't have a flood.

Then one single action can take that, all those laws to a conclusion. What if there are no houses there at all? Whatever put my house there, I don't build anything, right? So we allow the normal passage of water. Have I fulfilled the law? Have I. Did I need to build a house or shave my bed or where? No, no, no. So that's why he says, love your neighbor as yourself. This is all it's about. Do you understand? Do you get what I just said? Now this is, that is the issue with the law, is what is the goal? This is the goal. Why? What's the goal? That's why we made the comparison between in their world.

You see, it becomes so unfair if you want to apply the law of Moses in your world, because they say wide difference, but in their own time, when the Jews hear those things, Israelites hear those laws. And he had, so he said, we cannot just cut head like that, you know, the goal of it is he wants them to see their neighbor as their friend. But you see, because of who they were, we had to give them so many. But by the death of Jesus, by that incarnation, by the innocence that was made guilty, and then God the Father, who had the power to raise him because he did it, who had the power to stop them from doing it. What do I mean by stop? He had the power. Jesus had the power not to be available at all.

He walked right into it. We'll see the reason in a moment. Walked right into it so that he will fulfill it. So he has therefore brought the law into a logical conclusion. Now, do you know that therefore becomes, if I say I'm not under the law, you get it? I may just mean I'm not under 612 laws to begin to walk in love. But I can't say I'm not under the law, that I cannot fulfill the goal of the law. Do you understand what I just said? Now, if the goal of the law is love, I can't say I'm not under the law. I'm not under what to wear, what to eat and all of that. But I am under the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus, which is the goal of the law.

Whether it's criminal justice system, whether it is the commercial system, what still permeates it in their world is the love of God. Does that make sense? So in Matthew 9, we know what is right. When it came to Jesus in Matthew 9:19. Sorry. And he said, Moses asked us to. On what condition shall a man put away his wife? Jesus now said in verse four. Have you not read that? He that made them at the beginning made them male and female, okay. And said, for this cause shall a manly father and mother shall cleave to his wife, and the two shall be one flesh. Therefore they are no more twin, but one flesh. God are joined together, let no man put asunder. Then why did Moses give a bill of divorce? Why then this guy doesn't give us that?