Those who hear it will be refreshed. But you who cook it, if you are not refreshed, you have. You have everything. Fire, smoke all over you. You come out, be refreshed. So you have that duty. Almost every text now, you look at it closely and closely. You know that the concept of saying blessed and is not material wealth is not New Testament, though he's there in Genesis, it's right there. It's not that Jesus said, no, that was before Machairo's illogitis now. So spiritual thing, no. Is that there? So you and I have that duty to be that diligent. And my our work this week and the coming weeks, every naughty scripture in scripture will untie it. We're going to do four books and maybe five. There will be no problem left in the mind of the atheist, except he wants to go to hell.

The Bible will not be his excuse. I was joking with one the other day. I said you have a multi dimensional problem. You say there is no God. Yes, the Bible God is evil. Pick one. If you say there is no God, that means the Bible story of evil was not caused by any God. You can't say there is no God. Then say there is a God again, that is evil. You have to pick one thing. So choose one. There is no God. Excellent. So my job will be to prove to you there is God. Don't give me the God of the Bible. There is no God. So you have no claim of any God. Let me be the one to claim God. You be the one to wait for my claims. To go to the Bible.

To start searching for the evil of God means you believe there is God. So if you believe there is God, then that means you believe the God that you say is evil. Hope you are getting my argument. You can't stay on two sides. Whether tells you after you know where the devil is, you can't say there is God and there is no God. So you are not an atheist after all. Do you get my point? So we therefore need for, of course, for ourselves primarily as believers, to know the counsel of God and what his Word says. And secondly, to be able to preach the gospel to others. The first thing you need to realize is that the Bible that is the foundation was written in what you can call ancient Near Eastern culture. And they had several idioms.

There was a strong language of permission where a man's utterances are cognitive and not volitive. They state what he knows, what he perceives as different from what he does. English language is stronger on volition than cognition. The English language is stronger on volition than cognition. I might be proven wrong, but that is how it appears. And so we therefore must carefully examine God's statements or statements accrued to God and say, in what context is this statement made? So we will have two verbs that will be confronted with in the Hebrew Bible, the causative verb and the permissive verb. Causative means I did it. Permissive means I know about it or I saw it happen. And God being omniscient, just like Genesis 2:16, 17 will have in his judgments or in his cognition things that will happen or done by another party.

Let's look at Ezekiel 39:25. No, sorry, Ezekiel 32:4. So it is not the Bible that misrepresents God. I'll say it clearly, it is either honest or dishonest. Translations or interpretations. Look at this text and tell me how it feels when you read it. Then will I leave thee upon the land. I will cast thee forth upon the open field. I will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remain upon thee, and I will feel the beasts of the whole earth with thee. Why won't you feel? What in the world does this mean? I will cause this to happen. I will. I will make it happen. Yet what we have here is a permissive verb and not a causative verb. Some versions have altered it and I'll give you some of them.

The basic in the Bible in basic English says, I will let you be stretched on the land. I will let all the birds of the heavens come. Easy to read Version. I will let all the birds come and eat you. I will let wild animals the International Children's Bible thank God for this one. I will let the beds of the sky rest on you and will let the animals of the earth eat you. The new English translation I will allow all the birds of the sky to settle on you. I will permit all the wild animals to gorge themselves on you. In other words, the words used here is a permissive word. Cognitive in the sense of, well, I will have to watch it happen. Now, at the back of all these statements, 100% will be disobedience of the children of Israel.

Now that means the genesis of this will be Genesis 2, 16, 17. The day you eat of it, you will die. Sorry, is that causative or permissive? Talk to me people. Permissive. You know, you can safely say God watched Adam sin. You can safely say that God this is the genesis of life. God watched him sin. So when I say Adam, where art thou? Forget the drama. That's a rhetoric. It's not a literal statement that I left these guys here yesterday evening. Where is Adam? No, no, no. He's rhetoric. Adam, where are you? In other words, something that happened. So we must knowing from Genesis 2, 16, 17 we must therefore know that go what a man allows I shoulder to accept the word permissive will of God.

I will say that I think it's a little bit of a I believe that Those who used it didn't know the implication. Permissive will means I will permit it. No, I rather say permissive tense because the will of God was not involved at all. The will of God doesn't have a perfect and permissive tense. No, it is the language that is permissive, not the will of God who understand what I just said now. It is the language, not the will of God. Remember we said that God's actions and words are going to be translated or interpreted in human language. So if the Hebrew language has permissive tenses instead of causative ones, will therefore be faced to interpret language before we do actions. So Genesis 2, 16, 17 will be the genealogy of evil. Genealogy is critical. Where did evil emerge from?

Where did evil things come from? The word in the Hebrew is the word abba A B A R. Look at Ezekiel 14:15. I will cause noisomes, noisome beasts to pass through the land, and they will spoil it so that it will be desolate that no man may pass through because of the beast. Now let me say this. Imagine if the word I is not in the Hebrew. Another critical part of Hebrewism is that pronouns are often a function of interpretation. The direct Hebrew does not have a pronoun. It just had a bar. So another method of hermenautic is to say it was caused by someone and God watched it. Cognitive in the sense of his own words or his own actions, but causative on a third party. We'll come to Job later.

But like I said earlier today, Job opens our minds to a background scenario of evil in the world general. And Job is explicit. You find pay attention natural disasters, sickness and diseases and all that. It's all in the Job's experience. And what was God's response? Go to Genesis. Go to Genesis. Where were you? You know, he's not saying where were you? Like, where did they burn you? He said, go and read. Was after God told him to go to Genesis that he said, I'll head with the hearing of the air. Now from Genesis I can see. So the law in Genesis is the Bible. When he said, I see with my eyes now see, nobody was preaching to him. He's basically saying, oh, just like Jesus told those Pharisees. Have you not read that? He which made them at the foundation of the world.

So we have that duty, brothers and sisters, we need to understand systematic study beginning at Moses from the beginning. So here the aba should be with no pronoun. You put the pronoun. Even some latter translations put the pronoun I will suffer to pass through the land. They emphasize by books the complete English Bible. I will allow wild animals. That's Ezekiel 14:15. The King James says, I will cause noisome beasts to pass through the land, and they will spoil it so that it will be desolate that no man may pass through because of the beast. And the concept of this we are not Ezekiel, that's why I don't want good details, is idol worship. So what exactly happened? God's protection was not available. Second kings 17. And verse 25. It was at the beginning of their dwelling there. They feared not the Lord.

Therefore, look at this one. The Lord sent lions among them, which slew some of them. Wherefore they spoke to king of Assala, saying, the nations which thou hast removed and placed the cities of Samaria know not the manner of the God of the land. Therefore he has sent lions among them. And behold, he slayed them because they know not the manner of the God of the land. Interesting. So what you have there is God's rejection. Yet the writer says he sent it. So in our minds we look at prayer and date, okay, well, God, somebody offends God. He doesn't obey God, he doesn't believe God, and so God decides to deal with him. No, the point, the question should be in the Genesis of Evil, God is not the progenitor. What God does is to protect.

So when he says, you don't know me, that means you don't know my protection. It can't be my protection then, my lions. No. Or else God is protecting you from himself, which is not even reasonable, talking about being theologically sound. So Therefore in Psalm 91, for example, verse 13 to 14, God says, To protect those who believe. Jeremy, chapter 8, verse 15, said, he will lead you through the great and terrible wilderness, wherein there were fairy serpents and scorpions. So the Old Testament speaks of his protection, and that's what he does. Look at Ezekiel 34. Let's read that together. You know, we read, I will send beasts. Look at 34, verse 25. So what will let you know the language used is to read the whole story. You must read the whole story. Ezekiel 34, 25.

I will make with them a covenant of peace. I will cause the evil beast to cease out of the land, and they shall dwell safely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods. Look at 28. And they shall no more be a prey to the evening. Can you see it? Neither shall the beast of the land devour them, but it shall dwell safely, and none shall make Them afraid. Can you see the distinction now? So the causative verb is not God. You can only know that by reading the whole story. Look at Jeremiah 7:9, Verse 8. Behold, you trust in lying words that cannot profit. Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, and burn incense unto baal and walk after other gods whom you did not know?

And look at verse 10, and come and stand before me in the house which is called by my name, and say, we are delivered to do all these abominations. So there were warnings against idol worship. I think the new living translation says, and you expect me to protect you? Not sure that's a translation. So therefore there are verses rendered in the causative sense in the King James and other English translations, which ought to be in the permissive tenses. Look at Lamentations 2, 3. Lamentations 2, 3. He had cut off in his first anger, or the honor bishop. He had drawn back his right hand from before the enemy. He had burned against Jacob like a flaming fire which devoured round about. He had withdrawn his hand. It simply means his hand was not available in the use of wrath, for example, anger.

Anger is silence and inactivity, or inability to act on your behalf. So when we use wrath and the wrath of God is where he is silent. Because in Hebraism, silence depicts annoyance. Inactivity depicts someone who has been disobeyed, not complied with. So the wrath is his absence where he does nothing. Look at Luzon 28:25. The Lord God shall cause thee to be smitten before thine eyes. Thou shalt go one way against them, and flee seven ways before them, and shall be moved into all the kingdoms of the earth. You know, this is a converse or sorry. It's the exact opposite of the promise of obedience. If you obey, your enemies will go that way. If you obey, I'll protect you. If you disobey, I will not protect you. Why would you say he will cost them?

No simply means I will not protect you, or sorry, I can't. But the use of Hebrew language is like the person that can't is used in the active tense, even though it is a permissive sense that, oh, it's active in not doing anything, because it's a question of disobedience. Jeremiah 31:17. So the phrase abba used for cause needs to be given a pronoun. The pronoun is found by translation, and you only know that pronoun when you read it in context. Jeremiah 31:17. Then my anger shall be kindled against Them watch this. In that day, notice what the anger is. I will forsake them. I will hide my face from them. And they shall be devoured.