So we're going to find in. In the. In the age that we are in. Two ages running. Cocoa. That was a big bit of the misunderstanding of the average Jew. They felt, no, this will come to an end. Then this will begin. No, this will begin while this is ongoing. So you now begin to ask what is now this application in today's world? And that will be the job of the pastor and the Bible teacher. But until he first of all establishes the context of the day, he can't understand the context of today. Let me show you the following I'm talking about here. The context of the day is the premise for the context of today. So that takes us again back to our earlier studies in Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus and Numbers and Deuteronomy. That and I kept hammering on this.

If Moses wrote Genesis, that means Genesis was a teaching tool. Which means that the audience of Genesis will remain that set of people you will find in numbers. So the background of Exodus is Genesis. The reason for Genesis to give you a background of the Exodus, that the reason I have come to Egypt is because a promise was made to Abraham. And the reason why a promise was made to Abraham was because God made man in his image after his likeness and he said multiply. So the background of Abraham will also be Noah, Enoch, then Abel, and very vitally, the Genesis 1 and 2 accounts. So the context will keep coming back. You keep coming back. To understand the context of the Exodus, there needs to be an Exodus because sin has happened. There needs to be an Exodus because death has happened.

So, so you keep expanding that narrative, of course, within the context of Scripture to say the background of Exodus will remain Genesis. I will do that study and say when it says the promise made to the fathers, that is Genesis. So if you are coming to people and say the promise made to the fathers, you must show them that promise. That is why he wrote Genesis. Let me share if you understand what I just said now. So the context must be understood. The context of Isaiah will also keep. You keep backtracking that this is the context. That's why Bible scholars will say that the Old Testament was written in progressive revelation. I will see the essence of that shortly. Just like the genealogy, everything ends up in Jesus and that same progressive revelation. Okay, so the Old Testament therefore presents a picture.

We should now ask, how was Jesus able to teach the Old Testament without, you know, sometimes we can be very quick and say, well, he was, you know, he never discarded the Old Testament in any way, rather what he was to explain it. And you will wonder what was he doing for hours and hours and hours teaching. Sometimes he said he taught for three days and four nights. For three days or four days. What was he talking about? You know? And you discover that Moses also would teach the people of Israel for days. Why was it so? Because the Old Testament requires explanation. It requires there are two schools. The school that what they do is that they go to the Old Testament and just read it and apply it as they dim fit.

If somebody does something in your church, for example, just look for somewhere and say, he that does this will die. I say, just pump, throw it on conference, you die. Look at the issue of the Titan argument, for example. At some point somebody say, oh no, Titan is Old Testament. Was the excited grace camp is The Old Testament. So the grace camp is speaking many circles. There's there. We also have Christocentric Titan and false routine. So it depends on how you interpret it. And often that conversation is made by just jumping boom. You just jump from numbers and you find yourself in Galicia. Christ has redeemed us from the cause of the law. So you discard 4,000 years by one statement. You say, well, wait, Genesis is Genesis. He just wants. He just wants.

And he's not even from Abraham's property, of course, because you don't want to take money from your own money. So you have that too. So you know, you now go to that. This is an ordinance for your children and your children's children. But the thing is that something of that nature requires you to do a series of explanation. You don't just discard it. You don't look for a plaque to hold on to. Just run to Paul and say, Paul says that if you circumcise, then you are under the law and Christ died in vain. Well, I'm talking about Titan. I know, but Titan is it not the law. So you get confused. Rather, what Bible teachers did in that day was to explain every text in his own world. You don't rush. Why do you think James will say you have a stricter judgment?

Because it takes more than the ability to quote scriptures. It takes a deep look. Let's look at it together. So you find that Jesus will spend time and teach and you think that what he was doing was contradicting. He was not. He was explaining. Now if you meet people, for example, who are either atheists, pretending atheists, or want to be atheists, or those ones who say, I've been in church and all that, but I just can't lay my hands on. So oftentimes the challenge they will have is in the Old Testament stories. And that's because many times we run away from those stories because they can be scary. I mean, I remember I was asking for a commentary in 1 Samuel 16 recently, 15 recently. And I said, I wish I can write and add to this thing. Everybody started laughing.

I said, how can you say that? I mean, we said to obey bread and sacrifice. We quote that scripture, 1 Samuel 15:22. But you know what he was told? To obey. To go to a place and kill everybody, including the children and animals. If you say children are sinners, animals, sinners too. I say, so scary that I wish I could add to it. Everybody's not laughing that well, nobody. You can't add to this. It requires A Bible teacher to explain it. Because you say to me, by sacrifice, if you don't obey, God will not bless you. You know the context of that statement? Go and wipe off an entire city, including the children. And the reason why he was said to disobey was because he left a tithe of it, which for me should be working in love. Again, those things require explanation.

What's happening? There is this. You know, that's the Old Testament. Somebody with intelligence now say, well, Jesus said he came to fulfill it. They say, heir to bring it to an end. Okay, if that's your argument, who started it? He says, Moses. Moses started it. Yeah. Why is Christ fulfilling it? So you discover that there's something you can say to people that are not that very little. They say because they can't think. What do you mean by Moses gave the law? If Moses gave the law, who called? Moses says God. So did Moses obey God? You say, no. Then why is Jesus congratulating Moses? You know, Jesus is a higher law. So let's look at the issues that we are usually confronted with. The events are scary, particularly the wars.

The funny thing about those who, and I must mention this, those who go to scriptures to look for wars and tell you why did this happen? And all that happened will be people in countries that claim to be world superpowers. I don't think you got that. Let me repeat myself. Those who claim to be atheists and criticize the scriptures for having wars and people being destroyed are citizens of nations that are war superpowers. Please. Superpower of what? Let me repeat myself again. I don't think. Okay, I'll get that. You didn't get divorced too. So you need to be prayed for. Let me say it again. Some people claim to be atheists belong to nations. Let me say it very well, America, that their claim today to be world superpower. If I would call them the head boy of the world, the principal.

Hey, you don't do this. Why? Why did you elect that person as a president? You shouldn't be your president. Is it your country where we are concerned? Our citizens are there. Why can't they leave? Well, that is not. That is against United Nations Charter. Who really told me this years ago. He said united nation is just one country. Is what they say. I know it was formed after the second World War. Well, first and second, but second World War. And that was because America came to the rescue, you know, and all of that. Let's leave all that. So I said, but you in your own world, you have military they say yes. To do what? To protect your country. From what? From invaders in your own world. Would you call it unrighteous? They will say no. But in Bible world it should be unrighteous.

Are you following my point? So, so let's leave that out for now. We'll get to a logical conclusion. So we have the scenarios wars. For some folks, it's not the war that is the issue. You now say, well, women were killed, children were killed, etc and all of that again, some we're going to handle and do it very carefully. Others will point out the personality issues where you have Bible characters, as it were Bible heroes. And then you look at what kind of people are this? Let me give you an instance. Have you ever read the Lot story? Very well. The lot got drunk and was seduced by his own children, who bought children for him. You know, that's not really a good story. And then you now come to the epistles and he says righteous. How do you.

How do you come to that kind of conclusion? I mean, what kind of what. What's your God preaching? Something like that. Then you have an Abraham who didn't lie once. And lied twice. Genesis 12, 18, 20. Genesis 20, verse 1 to 13. Of course, lot only Genesis 19:31, 36. You have another one that is a big troubling Jephthah who vowed his daughter that one will get NGOs judges 11. You know the J one got me in discussion. Okay, said yesterday we saw one for over 45 minutes. I had David. I know you like David, but you know that what David did today in our world is called power rape. You know what they took. You have some lecturers go to jail for. That's what he did. You know, that's what he did that you want to.

There was one lecturer that said this, you know, to a lady that he had to sleep with to get marks to me. Sir. I scored 40. He said what do you want to score because you slept with me. He said it publicly. So that's 40 now he said, if you are going to score 70, you don't have to sleep with me. Of course you could look at. If you're an African, you look at the lady and say because you're an African but from another world. You just look at the man and say, you beast. You are animal, son of a devil. Because I really that's what he is. Or it was. Let me believe that he has changed. So you have a power rape then you have. That's what it's called today.

And then you have him is also a murderous person, you know, 2nd Samuel 11, verse 2339. Then the question would be sorry, 2nd Samuel 11, 2nd Samuel 2339. Now look at something about that, is that same person is now a historical figure in the Bible. And so you have those challenges in how to explain them. Then you have other instances. We take them one by one. You have the most troubling, I believe, you know, is a genocide masking. There's a mass killing today. Where I mean, then look at it. How come this happened? Because if today you hear, oh, and they pay attention here and they went to that village and they raised the whole place. You say, but then you read the Bible. Our God is the God of war.

So yes, my God, because you have somebody you want to raise in your village. So but then it's genocide. Then we'll talk about Isaac's sacrifice, that issue for many people. That. Why would you. Is that not child abuse? Why would you take your child? Because you want to worship one God that the child doesn't know. That's child abuse in today's world. And if you do it even in some European countries, all you need to do is to shout at your child, What did you do? And then you're in trouble. Had a friend who when they are in the mall and the child misbehaves, you just ping the child. When we get home. Because you can't do it publicly. Do it publicly. You would be a guest of the government. The child would be a child of the government. Ordinary you.