I can use a dialogue in literature to explain an action just like Jesus used dialogues. It therefore suffices to say that the dialogue of Abraham and Lazarus was figurative. Was there a Lazarus? Obviously shows it was almost irrefutable. Except Bradford Ivs later. Was there Abraham? Yes. Was there a dialogue such that they were. No, it was rather the dialogue of unbelief and faith. This is how unbelief reasons. This is what faith. Does this happen in the narrative of Job where the human heart is expressed in a dialogue, just like the human heart and what it does is expressed in a figure of speech using a tree and a serpent. So let's take a few things home. Moses wrote what has already been said. Moses preached from the law of God, the law of faith, and also the law of sin and death.

Did the law of sin and death precede Moses? Question. Huh? Did the law of sin and death precede Moses? Did I say any question? It did. But was it written before Moses? No. So when you say death reigned from Adam to Moses. Okay, that was there righteousness before Moses? Yes. Romans 4:3, Romans 4:5, Romans 4:6, Romans 4:7. Was there sin before Moses? Yes. So when Paul says Adam to Moses, referring to the book of Genesis. So the book of Genesis by using Adam, though there are two examples he used in the book of Romans and Paul. Certainly. Let us see what Moses was doing in Romans 4, Abraham is the example of believers in Romans 5, I Abram. So Adam, sorry, Abraham is Romans 4 in Romans 5, Abraham, Adam is the example of those who did not believe.

So in both ways, both Romans 4:12 and Romans 5:14 we have two examples. So in Romans 5:19 is not procreation, it is whose example did you follow? Adam made sinners, Jesus made righteous. And there was a prefiguring in Abraham, not only to him was it, but to us who believe. Romans 4:24, 25 so Moses theology in Genesis is to present examples. Israel afterwards now became an example. And so we are going to find these examples throughout Scripture. So as a teacher of God's word, you locate the context of your example or the example of your context. So the concept of thinking that the law of Moses created sin is ill informed. Sin was in the world, Sin entered to the world. Romans 5:12 sin was in the world until Moses. But it is not imputed, it is not written.

That's what he's saying, Is not written. You won't find any. He said that you won't find any book before Moses wrote about sin. But what Moses wrote shows you it was before Moses. So therefore we have that duty to handle the scriptures carefully. We must cross the language barrier, we must cross the context. I will say this barrier, that yes, we look at the language, but we will only be able to arrive today at the meaning of the tenses. We reinforce the arrival by reading the context where we're able to say, this is why this was said. Have you done this? Who told you? Therefore implies that for everything we must find the cause. For every action we may find who is the actor here, because as we have seen many times, the speaker is not the actor.

Many times it is the person who said nothing that did something. It's a person that said something that did nothing. The person who said nothing that did something is the person that said something that did nothing. So we therefore must explore all these indices. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/