Then he says, this is the house of God. This is where God will live. So Moses will use the heaven on earth narrative. Okay, to explain. Now the Egyptians will have where the idols meet man, where deity meets humanity in their own perverse nature. Moses says, what you are looking at, let me now use it to explain God's promise. So he will write in a language understood by his audience, a promise made outside their language. So the use of tabernacle will be borrowed. The use of temple will be borrowed. Borrowed to explain a truth. Am I making sense? Am I making sense here? Aha. So borrow to explain a truth which is found in the Torah. Were they hearing the truth for the first time? No, but he now uses illustrations, pictures, physical objects to explain it.

And this is why the concept of logos. I have a writing here I just want us to look at again. It's one of the. Except of all of our materials. Just want to read it out. The Bible is a piece of literature. And being a piece of literature implies that the laws of literature will be applicable when interpreting its contents. Now, there's been this issue about the use of the term logos. I think I've sent that to you before. And then we explored Psalm 33, 4. The Word of the Lord is right. Because people said that what happened was that John just came up with, you know, because he just came up with the Greek Heraclitus phrase of logos.

And then because logos was already used, which is true, by the Aristotle of his day and all of that, I think the Pythagoras of his day. So he just came up and said the beginning was the logos. Logos used for a research, an idea, a thought. But to say that will be to negate the Old Testament. Because if there was no logos. What do I mean by that? Some arguments have come to say the concept of logos by John is misplaced, that it is coincidental or a creation of man. To say that the entire 39 books had a common person. That is coincidental. That, that. Sorry, that is a creation of Native American writers. And it is of other buttons by the fact that John. John's use of the word logos appears like he sat back and then just said he is illogus.

So it is believed that the first three by those who are critics that the first three synoptics, you know, did not say much about the deity of Jesus. Because I've debunked that for us already. But that was John that came out years later. That I mean. I mean after 60 years you come up and start talking nonsense. Because if the book of John is about AD 60 and Jesus must have died about 60 years before that, how can you 60 years after start to now say something that you lot of ideas have come in biases and all of that? Because John was looked like the one that was more explicit about the deity of Jesus. So people have, you know, carried the thought that the concept of logos, you know, was something that had been used in the world before.

I remember somebody tried to argue this a couple of years back when the issue of the name of God came up and then people were trying to, you know, call God names also. That's very well, Logos is. Was taken from the world. That even if this is the subject, that even if the unbelievers are the ones that use the. What's the phrase again which from the Yoruba culture has to do with their own deities. You know, if it's that definitely John did the same thing. And don't just took a cultural to explain God. And that is quite a premise. So the question should now be that was that. And like I said earlier to that kind of conclusion. Always think that you are talking also to critics. That kind of conclusion will leave a critic the leeway to say, you see what I'm saying?

This is just. Jesus is a creation of a man that people just made him. That Jesus never laid claim to being God. It was his followers because they wanted to be very firm in their beliefs. They didn't want to look like they had lost faith. They now turned him into God. So again, the epistles are only as reliable as the Old Testament writings. So is there an Old Testament episode submission to the Logos? Because if you are saying that the Old Testament is a Logos, the Jewish critics who said nope, it was just for a people and God. There was no center point person. It had references to in the writings of Moses. He said, the Lord will raise a prophet like unto myself. So there's nowhere that is Joshua. And so who that is Jeremiah 18:15. Who will come into that prophet?

I'm just trying to put something across walls. What then is the. Why would John say there's a logos. That is, the entire Old Testament has a singular research material or person. So that led us to look at the study. Now, of course, then the argument comes out. Is there a transliteration of the word logos in the Old Testament, where the Greek word logos refers to a message rather than an individual word? That is, the Greek word logos doesn't just require to just an expression. It's a mind, it's an understanding. I'm trying not to get into the entire material. So does the Old Testament agree to a logos? Psalm 33, verse 4 the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done. In truth, the word of the Lord is right.

This word here is the word dabar D, A B, A r. It means a word spoken, but by implication refers to a matter, a discussion. Therefore, the Septuagint is correct to translate. The word logos was derived from the word daba, a message, a definite expression. Daba means a story, emphatically, a conclusion, a collection of facts that say the same thing. If you look at the way Psalm 33 was looked, please open there. Verse 9 says, for he spoke, it was done, he commanded, it stood fast. The Lord brings the counsel of the easing to not he makes devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord stands forever the thoughts of his heart to all generations. Now you discover that this is like rehashing Genesis 1. Psalmist therefore was quoting Moses from Genesis 1:1. The other grammatical facts there, but facts.

I'll just look at verse 6, Psalm 33. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. So if I say by the word of the Lord, and I'm referring to daba, discussion, an intent, a logic, it therefore means that I'm not just referring to the action of words, but the intent of words. A conclusion, a submission, a subject matter, a substance. So the question is that substance particular by a person? So if the writer, if the psalmist can write of the creation story in a present tense application, it means there's a logos of the Old Testament. Just like Psalm 95, you know, that says adding not your heart day of provocation. And he's not talking to the audience that Moses said that to, it means that there's a logos.

If what was said somewhere is repeated by another person with another audience, it means there's a logos. So the logos is the daba. It means Therefore that John 1:1, Genesis 1:1 and Psalm 33 is the same thing. There are other grammatical things you know, there's no way I can, except I have a drawing board. There's no way I can say it, but you'll find it in the material. We're going to put it in the grammatical cases and all that, the normative casing and all of that. So that you see. And the reason why we're doing that study is because of the Jehovah Witnesses thinking again, they also overrule the concept of that Logos being a person. So we're going to approach it grammatically and of course, systematically. That's it. So, so therefore Moses is writing the Logos in a grammatical sense.

We have said that we must cross the grammar barrier. So let us look at what he would be doing. So Genesis chapter three, where you have Adam and Eve will mean that they were given. Okay, put that vis a vis through me. Chapter 30, where the two scenarios. Look at the two scenarios. Adam and Eve were meant to be in the garden. Genesis 2, 16, 17. The tree of knowledge, of good and evil, the tree of life. God says, eat of the tree of life. But the day you know is good and evil, you will die. Deuteronomy, chapter 30, which is the second law I set before you. Life and death, good and evil. Choose life. The two scenarios. Now again, Deuteronomy will have a numbers fact where there's already a generation that had not believed. In the two scenarios. We have a land.

Because you have a garden. You have a land, And then you have a message, the call of God. Then notice Jeremy 30. Maybe we should open there. Verse 10. Hearken unto the voice of the Lord your God. Genesis 30, verse 8. To keep his commandments and statutes which are written in this book of the law. Don't forget again, that is Genesis. Turn of the Lord to your heart and all your soul. Look at 11. For this commandment which I command, this thing, it is not hidden from thee, neither is it far off. It is not in heaven that it should go.

We shall go to heaven for us and bring it unto us, that we may hear it and do it beyond the sea, that thou shalt say, who shall go over the sea for us and bring it unto us, that we may hear it and do it. But the word is nigh thee. The word is nigh thee. The Daba is nigh thee in thy mouth, in thy heart, that thou mayest do it. So let me stretch that for you. If you look at Romans 10, where Paul quotes this, look at the context again. Romans 1:8. Paul ended up in verse 38. You know 39. What shall separate us from the love of God. You know, it is believed that, you know, he ended it.

Then the addendum is chapter nine, my chapter nine, verse one, where Paul now mentions about his nation, Israel, his cousin, his kinsmen, that he wouldn't mind to be accursed for their sakes. Romans chapter 9. So in other words, he is repainting to us the Deuteronomy experience where Moses equally had a disobedient nation. Romans 9, verse 1, I have heaviness for my kinsmen in the flesh. Then he spoke about their disobedience. Then just like Moses said, look, the word is nigh thee. So Paul again uses that audience context in Romans 9 through to 10 through to 11. Paul's intention is to talk to Israel between Romans 9, 10 and 11. That's why he uses narrative of Genesis, Jacob and Esau, Isaac and Ishmael. In one way he mentioned they have been a disobedient nation.

He showed them the pattern of God's election by faith and grace. You know, at that point he's zeroing on the nation of Israel as a people. You know, he had left adam in Romans 5, spoken to Jew and Gentile. He had, let me just try and see what we can do to that. He had given different pictures before. Then let me put like this, okay, Romans 1 to 8. As I concluded Romans 9:11, he now focused on Israel. That look, this is like a second law. The second instance where we had Israel being presented the same thing again said, look, the promise has come to you again, Israel. And that context, the only way you can understand Romans 9:11 is the context of a disobedient Israel and the argument therein about salvation.

For example, if you look at Romans 3:23, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. It presented Deuteronomy experience where Moses will say that, you know, these people are a froward generation, they are crooked in their ways and all of that. And it says that all the world may become guilty before God. Romans 3:19. That is a Jerome experience. So we have said over and over that for those texts there must be an illustration. All I've seen come short of the glory of God at that instance, is referring to how they broke the law. The law of God, the law of faith. So you have an exile position. Exile.

So the same way we can now say that in Genesis chapter two, what was given to Adam and Eve was the law of faith and then the law of sin and death. Just like Deuteronomy chapter 30. Just add this somewhere. This is just Romans 2:29 is not a Jewish one. Outwardly, but inwardly. And Paul uses the word Kos there, but inwardly, which is in the heart. Again, when you say circumcised in the heart, that is Deuteronomy 30 again. So the scenario is to show that. Look, fetal is playing itself out. Why am I using these illustrations for you to see that they were always confronted with their world, your world. You must find the audience then in your audience. Now, like we said the other day, coined the word unifiers. So therefore. There is no difference between Exodus and Deuteronomy or Genesis.