So just put all this down. You know Acts the word seed, in that order. Acts 3:25. Sorry. Acts 13:25. Let's see that one, please. 23 Of this man's seed. Hath God, according to his promise, raised unto Israel a savior. Acts 13:23, Acts 7:5 and 6. Put Acts 3:25 too. Five and six. A seed should sojourn a strange land, and it should bring them. So you have the word seed. Romans 1:3, the seed of David. Romans 4:13. David also the background. Look at Galatians 3, 16, 19 and 29. Galatians 3, 16,19 and 29. That was mentioned. Now this is critical. This is very critical. Which is the word in the Greek. So you have Hebrews 2:16, Galatians 3. Let's read that one first. 16 Not too many, but the seed which is Christ. 3:16, 3:19 Till the seed shall come. 3:29.

Abraham seed heirs according to the promise. Hebrews 2:16. He took on the seed of Abraham, singular the seed. Look at Hebrews 11:11. To conceive seed. And you know the word conception is where you have. What's that word now that has to do? Foundation of the world. Is it Hallelujah. Foundation of the world. To conceive seed. Verse 18. In that in Isaac shall thy seed be called, which was a figure. Hebrews 11:18. First John 3:9. This is key. When it Says the seed of God abides in him. And we've had a lot of intervention on that. The seed of God abides in him. And then it talks about joy of God and is referring to Cain, Abel, the seed of God, which means that there is a pattern, all right, that is Abel and Cain.

Okay, so Abel is the seed of God, which means that even though Adam was his dad, he was a seed of God. Cain is not the seed of God, it's a seed of the wicked one. So procreation has nothing to do with a man's spiritual makeup? Not at all. Now what does that take you Back to? Genesis 12:3. Genesis 12:3 is God restating Genesis 12:3. And these shall all the families of the earth be blessed. I will bless them that bless thee. The nations of the earth be blessed. Genesis15, Verse five, so shall thy seed. B. Notice that this is restating Genesis 3:15. The seed shall bruise the head and bruise the heel. Genesis 1:26, 28 have dominion, subdue the earth. Genesis 1, 2, 3, the spirit of God on the nations. The nations. So the promise for the seed is the Spirit.

The Spirit will multiply the deeds of the flesh. The Spirit will crucify the flesh. The Spirit will judge sin. The resurrection of Jesus is also called the Spirit. So the seed in the nations of the earth is the resurrection of Jesus or the Spirit. So Paul didn't just think it up when he says that the promise of the Spirit through faith, because by the time rejected 1 and 2, chapter 1, verse 2, I said the Spirit was on the face of the waters. And Genesis 2, you find that the waters in Garden of Eden were the nations of the earth, you know, spring, different nations of the earth in their own world. That is all the geography that you could afford. So the first one is called a life, a living soul. Genesis 27, then a life giving spirit. Genesis 3:15, bruise his head.

Genesis 1:26, 28, that's a life giving spirit. Genesis 1:3, the life giving spirit, which is the light of the world. So you can see that in Adam we see God putting in what is right as touching what has gone wrong. So Christ's death is a proof, all right, of his love, of his sacrifice, and of course one of the many actions that is in the righteousness of God that culminates in his resurrection. Because what is the use of a dying shepherd for the sheep? The shepherd gave his life for the sheep. So what now happens to the sheep? It is the resurrection of Christ that enforces or validates his Shepherdhood. He gave his life, then he took it back. It is a shepherd that is alive that keeps the sheep alive. Hebrews 13:20.

The everlasting covenant, or put it properly, the promise of an everlasting life. So Moses is. I won't use the word cryptic by showing us the Image In Genesis 1:26:28, Selim, the likeness Demuth. Then he uses the same phrase, Genesis 5, verse 1 and 3. And in this instance he is referring to Adam and saith showing you that the intent of Genesis 1:26 28 is God the Father and the Son. The word demuth likeness is another Hebrew word, damar, D a M a H or D a M a R. It means to resemble. Why is Moses using these illustrations? Because he's dealing with people who are worshipping idols. So he uses image that whilst you are putting something somewhere in a temple, that God will put heaven and earth together.

He will put us together and what we will find in this temple is the Spirit. So he told them, when you heard, it's not your voice you heard. Did you see any animal, any wicked creature? Said he didn't see it, So it will be by his Spirit. So image therefore will refer to God's DNA or God's humanity. This is God's humanity. And from falling short of it, there had been a journey of God's faithfulness, where he walks through human imperfection, the agencies, the not efficient but sufficient tools up till he got to the efficient and sufficient, the person of Jesus. Jesus and all this journey we are going to look at together. So therefore you cannot explain the righteousness of God without some core elements. Listen carefully. We have already seen what is wrong God put in his right.

We've also seen what was judged against. We've seen what is done right and what is done wrong. You can't also talk about it. And Abel doesn't come and Cain, where you have love and hatred, being your brother's keeper. Pay attention here. One other element there is that in the righteousness of God there will be one singular family. Righteousness means. When you say justified, you know, I tell you to look at something. I said, it means to be approved. And we say, well, it means I've seen, I no longer seen. No, no, no, no. It means that the, let me say the access to this family, which is Jew and Gentile, or neither Jew or Gentile, hear me, is that you will rest on God's righteousness, what God has done right. And when that happens, a man's sins are Forgiven, he becomes a new creature.

So that means that the concept of sin and forgiveness is an element in God's righteousness. The goal is to yet achieve God's dream. All the nations of the earth subdue, multiply, replenish. Indeed shall all the families of the earth be blessed. You therefore cannot talk about righteousness without seeing the unity of the nations found in Christ. That is, we are called out. Ekleo almost looking at. Okay, out of everything on earth there is a naming that happens. As I believe the gospel, I am called out. So eventually the goal of God's righteousness is a nation, a family. A nation, a family. Which is the ecclesiology? A nation, a family, a people, a nation, a family. Look at Romans I said Romans 1 to 7. You have the promise. The Scriptures, Romans 1 and 2. Sorry, Romans 1, verse 1 and 2.

The promise, the Scriptures, God's good news. Then three concerning the Son, Jesus Christ. Where you have the soterior, then the Christ. Who is the soter, then the Son. And of course, when we say son, we're not just talking about procreation, we're talking about an inheritance. Something will be inherited. So what is Jesus's inheritance? What is he to inherit? What is this inheritance? In Genesis 3, Moses uses 2 and 3. A garden, a land. And that land. He now put all the nations there. So this man, Adam and Eve are out of that land. Listen carefully. Abraham is called to a land. And the land is all the nations of the earth. And the land is in the spirit. We'll come into it. Let me just come to that. The land is in the Spirit.

So Romans 1, 3, 4, 5 now says, Jesus is now validated in his resurrection the spirit of holiness that we now have received. Apostleship and grace. Apostleship for the obedience of faith among all nations. Is that in the righteousness of God. All nations, Is that it? God putting things in the right or in what is right, then he says, will now preach. That is from the ecclesiology. We have the mission, just like Israel. I will look at it more. Israel is called for a mission, a nation out of the Exodus go round the world. But Israel failed in its mission. And then we had a faithful Israelite who bore their failures. He fulfilled the mission. That's Jesus. So did God ever replace Israel? No. Israel fulfilled his mission through Jesus Christ.

Now all the nations of the earth are now incorporated into the true Israel of God. That's for another day. So Paul is done. In Romans 8:39, he talks about the end points. He goes to the end. And he says, nothing shall separate us. It goes to the very said, not even death. So it goes to the very end and gives the verdict. So Darkayo is that, oh, the verdict that is in the future has been brought forward. So you can have an assurance of the future by what has been given to you now. So he turns to his brothers in Israel, his cousins, Romans 9, 11, he lets them see that, look, sorry, in Romans 1 to 8 he lets everybody see whether you are Jew or Gentile. The issue is faith in God's righteousness.

Okay, so by Romans 9:11 he says, look guys, it's not about being a Jew. Then he shows them a distinction. You know, there's Isaac and Jacob, sorry, there's Ishmael and Isaac, there's Jacob and Esau. He let them see, you know, some were disobedient. Even the prophets let you know that, look, this is not about being born of Abraham. Some of you are just like Gentiles. You have hardened hearts. He showed you Pharaoh was hardening his heart. He showed Israel hard his heart. So he said, look, it's not about being born a Jew, you know, he shows you that it's not a natural conception. Talked about Esau then, you know, called everybody to. Then he won. The Gentiles. Don't think that it's about your nation. No, don't think God has replaced Israel.

He said, look, if those that the Messiah came through can be hard hearted, a severe thing can come to you. He's not talking about believers losing their salvation, he's talking to non Jews. I think we've done that in the study of Romans. So in Romans 12, abuse. Brethren, brethren. Therefore now will not be Romans 9:1, it will be the people that are called into God's ecclesia. Romans 12 goes into, you know, walking in love. Then the fundamental thing is Romans 14. Where he talks about eating together again, if you don't get it, you will think he's talking about lunch alone. No, the key issue is in verse one. He that is weak in faith, receive ye, but not to doubtful disputation. The word received. There is the word proslambano. Pro slambano. Pro slambano. In Romans 15:7, how Christ has received us.

Romans 15:7 post lambano. It means to be welcome. So he says in Romans 57, receive ye one another as Christ also has received us. Receive ye one another as Christ also has received us to the glory of God. Post lambado. Now Notice In Philemon 17 it means to accept one like yourself. Philemon 17 does Philemon and Onesimus receive him as myself? So in Romans 14, when they are talking about eating together, those are the feasts of Exodus. We are saved together, we came out together, we are delivered together, so we eat together. And so the concept of eating together is not sharing food as much as accepting one another as one. So in Romans 14, that issue of eating together which you are going to see is more of acceptance.

When Peter was accused of eating with the Gentiles, that means he has accepted them. Acts 11. One, they gave the story the issue. We didn't see him eat lunch, it was just that he had accepted them. When Paul the First Corinthians 11 says, when you come together and you, everybody, you have this said to accept one another as one. So if you are rich and you still treat the poor with disdain, he said, you are only judging yourself. And that already shows us that the feast of Exodus, which we are going to see in Leviticus, that should be 23 to 25, probably you look at it also. Yeah. Will show us that the issue is we have a common Exodus. A common Exodus. So the poor and the rich eat together. The slave and the master eat together. Male and female eat together.