And people don't know the implication of that. Now, again, I remember in my first year in law, I think that was that thing. What's the first thing we study. Legal methods. Thank you. They said there is what ought to be. Now, what ought to be is ideal, but what is what obtains. So they oftentimes say that the law is what the judge says it is. And so you can have. You can really feel bad, but this is. This is. I remember somebody was telling me recently that a judgment was procured in procurement or. Yeah, that was that they applied the law wrongly. I said, well, but the truth is that pronouncement of the judge is what it is. You know, until you go there, appeal and then, you know, get reprieved from a higher. Call it upstairs, a higher court. That's the word.

It's going to remain law. There's nothing you can do about it. So there's what it is and there's what it ought to be. Now, oftentimes you will find the scriptures, being very honest, will tell you what obtained, not what it ought to be. I've given you instances of Jesus using parables of what obtained, but he's not endorsing it. So the fact that something is written in Scripture and the fact that they even mentioned God doesn't mean that they were right. The Bible is just honest to show people's lack of understanding, their unbelief, rebellion and sometimes mischief. So Jesus's parables of the different classes in the society was not an endorsement at all. It was just factual, not necessarily the truth. And so we had kings who were idol worshippers. We are judges in Israel. Let us look at the case of Samson. Judges 14:8,9.

He was said that Samson should not touch dead bodies. Judges 14:8,9. And then something is here. He turned aside to the carcass of the lion. And then the swarm of bees owning the carcass of the lion. He did that. He taught the dead body in Judges 14:8,9. In Judges 16:1, Samson the man, the great man of God, you know, was sleeping with prostitutes. A harlot. Judges 16:1. It doesn't mean an endorsement. And Judges 11:29 equally will show you that Jephthah that we just read about had the spirit of God upon him as well, just like Samson. Yet Judges 8:24, verse 24, you had a Gideon, also anointed Georgie. 6:34. The spirit of the Lord was upon Gideon. Judges 6:34. But Gideon, in Judges 8:24, he would request that they give him earrings of the spray, golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.

And then they willingly give them. He spread a garment and did cast therein every man the earrings of his spray. And then you look at what did he do with it, the weight of it up to 27. He made an effort, went a hoaring after. So Gideon equally went into idol worship, or is it hehud in Judges 3 and 26. Judges 3 and 26. You also find judges in the book of Judges went into idol worship. So they mingled a whole lot. I could put they were canonized. Not like saying being worldly today. It's like seeing the practice of a preacher and calling it right, because a preacher has done it. But the Bible is honest enough to give you the facts that this truly happened. Then you find something again. He led Israel well. Judges 14:16 and 19, Judges 15:14. Eli had contradictions.

Yet he went for a philistine woman, married Delilah, went into prostitutes. What is he saying to you? That God, in spite of people's weaknesses and sins and moral failures, walked with them. You have people like David, a major character of the Old Testament, Abraham. So that it is written, is not a seal of approval. That they mention God or did in his name, is not a seal of approval. Let's take it home. Look at Peter. Peter had a sword, okay? And Jesus didn't give it to him. We almost look like God should be a remote controller, that the sword should just become a pencil. No, he had a sword. And right in the presence of Jesus, he cut someone's hairs. Hair, not ears, just one. And Jesus had to put it back.

They had a trip one time to Samaria and James and John said, let's call down fire. These things happened with Jesus. I've been taught them the salmon on the mount, taught them turn the right cheek, this guy ready to turn anything. Or you go to Acts 5 and that's a fair because it's written, because he mentioned the Spirit of God. They will say God must have done it. That's very unfair. You have to realize that these are human beings just like you and I. I mean, we've had the best sermons of anger, best summons of don't be angry, the love of God from the mouths of people that will do exactly opposite He. It doesn't invalidate their offices nor make what they have said earlier wrong. And you have to realize that the Bible, like I said the last time, is an honest book.

The Bible is a very honest book. It tells the truth about the characters there. But he lets you know that they all needed a savior and the Messiah is Jesus. So Jephthah said he vowed unto the Lord, but does he make it offering for God? The Bible is just being honest. In the book of Judges through and through. Israel was deep into Canaan. In spite of modified legislation, in spite of the worship of God, a lot of them were still into idol worship. Did you see Solomon? Solomon was very deep into idol. He built shrines. He said he had a thousand wives or thereabouts. And he built a sh. And they were all idol worshippers. What in the world was a man like that doing? But you know what he wrote? Proverbs. And you are blessed, Ecclesiastes. And you are blessed. That's the truth.

But the Bible is honest enough to report the failings of God's servants. That mustn't be used against God. I thought it was a plus, but mischievous people use it as a minus. Look at something you shouldn't miss out in Judges. Judges 17, 6. Every man did as it was right in his own sight. Judges 21, 25. Every man did as it was right in his own eyes. These are the very end of Judges. Judges 2, 10, 23. We find people were just doing anything. They were idol worshipers. So did God ask Jephthah for a child? It is not possible. Did Jephthah say God asked him? Yes. Was given a child as a worship, Was it idol practice? Yes. Were kings given to idol practices too? Yes. Were judges given to idol practices? Yes.

So Mentioning that God did something doesn't mean he did it right in the book. That's what I told the fellow. I said you have been dishonest. You had read and read. It's either you accept that Jesus is God or he's not. If he is God, then why don't you just listen to him as he corrects all those things that we must have thought God did. Some will say, but the Bible talks about firstborn offering. Interestingly, people still do that today. I see billboards in town and people are doing firstborn offering. Quite interesting. And they are Nigerians. The firstborn offering is in Exodus 22. Of course, if you have never read this well before, you think it means to put your firstborn on the line. Exodus 22, 29 and 30 Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of thy ripe fruits of thy liquors.

The firstborn of thy son thou shalt give unto me. Likewise thou shalt do unto thy oxen, and with thy sheep seven days he shall be with his dam unto the eighth page shall give it to me. Now definitely this is not giving your son. It's actually an offering to remember what God did for them in Egypt. That's basically what they are doing. Not offering animals. I'm not offering human beings. Exodus 13:13. And every firstling of an ass thou shall redeem with the lamb. And if thou shalt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his neck and all. The firstborn of the man among the children thou shalt also redeem. So it's like a payment of a sort. It's like a worship of saying, well I remember that God did this. That's basically what that is about. Exodus 4:23.

I will slay thy son, even thy firstborn. So I mean it's just like I mentioned earlier to commemorate what happened in the land of Egypt when they left. But like we have said, you know, there was a common practice offering children infant sacrifice. 2Nd Kings 17:17. I thought we're there then. 2Nd Kings 23:10 2 Kings 16:3 2nd Chronicles 33:6 I'll take it again. 2Nd Kings 17:17 2nd Kings 23:10 2Kings 16 Verse 3 2nd Chronicles 33:6 now that it was a common practice doesn't give it acceptance. That's something you must learn. In the Old Testament that something was commonly done and God's name was mentioned doesn't mean it was accepted. God did redeem the firstborn of Israel and he did not do it even with anything. It was basically Their deliverance from the land of Egypt.

So the fact that you have a practice does not in any way legitimize it. That's something you have to realize. So the firstborn offering was something they were doing to commemorate the deliverance from Egypt to. For someone now, today, to now, like a taxation kind of thing. If somebody now should insist on that today the person is being dishonest because it's taking that out of context. There was a context to it. It wasn't universally applicable. It was applicable to a group of people because of what that happened to them. Historically speaking, it was for a time. So if today somebody does firstborn offering is not just lifting it far above the heavens, is into the planets, it has gone way above lifting out of context. That is totally dishonest. So it's an unsustainable practice. Once again.

Now let's view one more and then Ezekiel 20, verse 25 to 26. I know we have not done Ezekiel before, but this, we just have to read this at this point. Ezekiel 20:25. Wherefore I gave them also statutes that were not good, and judgments whereby they should not live. I've seen atheists write about this before. Statues that were not good judgment that they should not live. And I polluted them in their own gifts, in that they caused to pass through the fire all that opens the womb, that I may make them destiny to the end, that they might not know that I am the Lord. You know, that looks like I possibly gave you bad laws so that you will die, and then your children will pass through the fire so that you know I am God.

Again, to take this out of context is extremely dishonest. Now let's read the opening verses of this chapter, verse 12. Moreover, I gave them. Okay, verse 11. First I gave them statues and showed them my judgment, which if a man does, he shall. What can you see it now? Moreover, also I gave them my servants to be a sign between me and them that they may know that I am the Lord. Lord that sanctifies them. So can you see it's a contrast. It's like I gave you a good law so that you will live, then a bad law so that you will die. Now you know, without doing any study, you should understand what that means. Are you following what I'm saying? But when you are dishonest, you stick with what we just read now. But let's follow, there's a context to it. 13.

But the House of Israel rebelled against me. The World and is the one walk not in my statues. It's passed by judgment that if a man does it, he shall. He shall even live in them. And my Sabbath they polluted that I said, I'll pour out my fury upon them in the wilderness to consume them. So that means what we are going to read afterwards is God's judgment. Interestingly, the this in verse 13 is the Hebrew word chokot. So C H U Q Q O T and we've just seen now that there was a disobedience that we read in verse 13. Israel disobeyed. But the one we read earlier in 25 is the word chukwim. C H U Q Q I M, that is, I gave them statues that were not good.

Now, if any writer changes his use of words, that means is allowing. You think one is feminine, the other one is not. In other words, you derive one from the other. So by saying I gave them bad laws, you and I should have asked the question, what figure of speech is this? In Romans, chapter one, Paul writes that God gave them over to reprobate minds. You and I know that God did not hand them over. You know, it just means he did nothing. If you say he delivered Jesus to the hands of his killers, it doesn't mean that God said he wants him. We know it was Judas that did it. We know the devil entered into him. It simply means God did nothing. Who's following that man? Do you understand that?