Used for God so God will provide an everlasting covenant. So Mount Moriah was a place of worship. It wasn't a place of giving Isaac and then he's raised from the dead. No, basically it's come and see what God will do. And so he was to go on Mount Moriah and then in a figure, in a parable like format, show to Isaac what God has shown him. So two things are going to happen. Abraham is going to reconfirm what he had believed. Isaac is going to see what his father believed. So everything there is instructive. The first Genesis 22:2 Son. That's why when he was going, the psalmist asked him, said, we are going to worship God and will come back to you. Now that could lead to two things, because it will be difficult to know what's on the mind of Abraham.

But one thing I know is that Abraham did not think Isaac was going to be slaughtered and then go like that. I know Abraham knew that whatever God was going on that mountain was going to keep to his covenants. And he says that Isaac, through that nation of Isaac, with the Messiah come. If God has said that and you trust him, it means Isaac will not die. So Abraham, therefore he proved that he had believed. That's why what happened on Mount Moriah was now explained by James as the works of faith, not the faith that he proved it when he offered Isaac is the works of that. Look, I believe what you said, so I'm going to take Isaac on Mount Moriah. I believe you.

So the writer of the book of James shows that as the works of faith without works, not the believing. Genesis 15:6 Genesis 12:1 2 already shows that Abraham believed. So Abraham is merely saying, I know what you said, and I believe it. Then he takes Isaac to see, the Lord himself made a lamb. And they saw a lamb. I mean a goat, ram in the ticket. He will call this place Jireh because the Lord saw it. The Lord sees. He sees. He provides for himself the lamb. Now, if you are in Israel, pay attention. And Moses says, you should offer bulls. And it teaches you this. Which means that the essence of the offerings you have been doing is to remind you of what God will do. Do you understand? Because the background of the law is Genesis.

And Genesis is the story of God's gr. So in Hebrews 6, 18, writer of Hebrew says, abraham knew that God cannot lie. Titus 1, 2, he cannot lie. Why God cannot lie? Because God gave him a promise. Genesis 12:2 and 3, Genesis 15. He gave him a promise. And in Genesis 15:17 he showed him. Pay attention there. Genesis 15. Let's look at Genesis 15:17. It made him sleep. In horror came to pass that the sun went down. It was dark beyond a smoking furnace. A burning lamp passed through the pieces that is Abraham had offered. Yet they were fouls. Offer the sacrifice and say, and so God passed through it. Now, you may not understand that in today's language, then, the way to show commitment is to court. When you cut, say, look, I put my life on this.

So Abraham has slept, he has offered animal, and he sees that God himself pass through, like saying, I swear I will do this. So God therefore becomes not just the one who gives the promise, he's the one who equally says, look, I swear it will happen. I put my life on it. The Orientals understand what it means that when you pass through a sacrifice like that and look at it again, God had no other language to use but the language of the sacrifice, of the days that Abraham lived. That's why when he was going to explain his union with man, he had to use the language of temple. Temple actually is an Egyptian language where they put their idols. So you see the way these people are worshipped. That's how I will come and live in you.

So in their world, this is what it means. When you make a commitment, you pass through it. You cut it, you cut yourself into two. And he says, the Lord was now the one who passed through it himself. And he says, he made a covenant. Unto your seed have I given this land, river of Egypt, from the great river Euphrates, and all of that I am reaffirming my commitment. Hebrews 6. He says, by doing immutable things, it's impossible for God to lie. That is, he has already given an oath. He has sworn, because in their world, that is how it is done. And he says, God has now done this to Abraham. Amen. So follow this, please. Let's see. Okay, let me just. Jeremiah 34, verse 18.

And I will give the men that have transgressed my covenant, which have not performed the words of the covenant which they had made before me when they caught the calf in twin and passed between the parts thereof. So it was a practice of the Eastern world, near Eastern world, then, that you pass through a sacrifice and say, I'm responsible for. This is what I'm going to do. And this is what happened in Genesis 15. Are you here? Are you there? So Jesus, therefore on the cross is the picture of Genesis 22 and. And every other such sacrifice. So the death of Jesus brings life. Now, maybe. Let me just. This is. By the way, I mean, this is not exactly too theological, but somebody once asked me, how can you legitimately tell me that somebody's death can bring life? So I now explained.

I said, for example, if someone. If someone. Okay, I think, okay, I'll take it in twofold. If someone were to be hit by a car and another person dives in front of the car as he preserved the life? He said, yes. I said, very good. So it's not that Jesus died as an example. For example, if there was no injury to another person and he just died in front of a car, that's suicide. That's not an example. So it's an example because he did it for us. But it's not an example primarily. It's primarily to preserve and rescue. Now, the second question is that, okay, to what intent will that be that he died? Can death preserve life? So I used one for someone a couple of days ago.

I said, if, as a medical doctor, you find out a man has a woman, sorry, has an ectogic pregnancy, I said, can you remove it to preserve life? Yeah, of course. Of course. That's just medical. I said, exactly. So it is possible for death to bring life. That's not theological, but it just makes sense. So Jesus therefore, in offering, he preserves us in humanity. John 10:15, John 10, 17, 18, 1 John 2, Romans 8:32. So it is therefore not a child sacrifice in Genesis 22 is God's sacrifice. Does it make sense? So God simply uses symbolism to explain what he will do. From the name of the mountain, Moriah. And what Abraham said, it was obvious the Fellow who was going to sacrifice is God himself. So what happened on Mount Moriah was not child sacrifice.

What happened on Mount Moriah was God's own sacrifice, what he would do for humanity. That therefore dovetails into the Exodus Leviticus number. Now, of course I would expect that you will go back and re listen to the series. I know it's going to be tough, but maybe your notes. All right. And therefore it means that the reason for every sacrifice was God's sacrifice. God never asked anybody to sacrifice. They were only given sacrifice to remind themselves of what God said he would do. So if on Mount Moriah it was to remind Abraham of God's promise, therefore means that every other offering was a reminder. It was a reminder of what God said he will do in the essence of the Jews. It was to either see whether they will believe, which he said. I said it to prove you.

But in Abraham's case, it reconfirmed that he believed. Let me see how if you understand what I just said now. So I must be able to read Exodus and Genesis together. What Moses was teaching during the Exodus experience before the laws were given or while they were given, was the book of Genesis. That is why. Let me quickly rush to that and come back there. That is why you discover that if you look at Deuteronomy 30, I offer to you death and life. That is Genesis 2 being reset the tree of knowledge of good and evil. The day you eat of it, you will die life and death. You discover that what he was referring to was the same thing in Genesis. Sorry, Jeremiah 30 where he mentioned life and death said but choose life. Why he is the same writer.

In other words, he's saying what happened to Adam and Eve is what happened to Israel. And you know what God did for them in the land of Egypt? He was called their helper. Their Azar will make an Isa for him. So see Genesis as the gospel in the Exodus. Let me see how we are following this. That's the gospel in the Exodus. So if I ask you, will you be able to answer was Isaac's experience child sacrifice? No, but you can mischievously call it that when you ignore the context of what happened was a child sacrifice. It was basically a teaching class or a proving class or a reminder. If I'm going to remind you whether I've seen as I said to you, I'll give you a land, I'll give you a child. Then you went to get a maid.

As a wife, you had Ishmael. So let me now come back again. I remind you of What? I said, okay. Take your son, your only son. I know there's Ishmael. That means I'm talking figuratively. Go and do so. So and so on the mount, where you will see the Lord. Moriah, to see the Lord. Where you will see the Lord. So what I'm asking you to demonstrate is to see what God will do. That's why. Because I'm not in Abraham's mind, and I don't think Moses was. Have you? Okay, maybe Abraham said, okay, What God wants. God wants to show me what he wants to do. So I will offer Isaac. But I know he will raise him for the dead because God does not lie. He will, through Isaac, raise up a seed that will save humanity. I know he will not lie.

And Isaac is. Now, assuming Isaac had children, then Abraham can start doubting. He wants to finish this one because he already has Jacob and Lisa. Do you understand? But Isaac didn't have children. So in other words, if God did not lie, then Isaac was not going to die. Does it make sense? So it was not child sacrifice, but it can be called child sacrifice because people say, can you imagine how can you bind a small boy? You know, you. You know he was bound. Read it very well. I know you will skip it, but when you are an atheist, you will not skip it that he was bound like this. How can you bind a child? No, he was an adult. How many of you have been. Have. Have been asked to be bound before?

You've not asked them to do something to you before? Many times now just say, give this to. Don't worry, don't worry. I'll take care of you. People do that. Do you get it? I. You say, this is for a purpose, and nobody will say they hurt you because you are. I said, no, I asked him to do it. You know, are you sure? Somebody says, for example, if you're looking for someone now and then the person is 14 years, I now find him in the house of a guy. Say, you say. You guys say, she came willingly, don't worry. You willingly spend the rest of your days in jail. But if she's 35, you say abduction. No, that's romance. It's the same thing.

He was old enough to run, old enough to even fight back, old enough to remove his own life, that he was that knife. I have my own. So that's not abduction. So therefore, we need to constantly remind ourselves of the world, what was going on. The moment I detach Genesis from Exodus, I will not understand the context, the background of Exodus is Genesis. Never forget that God made a promise and the land was a people because he said your seed. Which means the promise was a new humanity. So I must always stay in context. So you can see context is not the verse before and the verse after. Hope it is clear. Context is the whole Bible. That's tough, right?

Can you see why when church doesn't do Bible study, we're going to fall into trouble because we are going to assume too many things. We must therefore take scriptures very seriously. Now, let's go into some other crucial issues. I wanted to talk about the wars today, but you'll be here till tomorrow. Because I will take it systematically. I don't want to rush you. We'll look at the wars, that destruction, safe. What was going on? Some of us were saying they didn't hear God. Well, who. Who made those conclusions again? Those. They went to and killed everybody. We'll take it gradually. I will expand it when we start talking about Luke. Praise God. Somebody sent me a text. Was it two days ago? Was it yesterday? I never knew before Gospel was this serious. Before Gospel is just something we just read.