Okay, Luke 24, 25, 27. And he said to them, o fools, and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin at Moses? And all the prophets, describe them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself. So we said that in the exegetical nature of what Christ has done here, it takes into cognizant critical elements of grammar and history. There's no way you can teach Genesis to Malachi. And you are not talking history. There's a biographical content, there's the autobiographical content, the historical content, the contrasts, and all of that. So those are things you will find in. What he has done. 44. These are the words that I said to you, that all things, these things must be fulfilled. We said that has a predictive nature.

That is, when you are reading them, it doesn't make sense to put them in the present tense when they are predictive in nature. So you must put it back in its world. What does it stand for in its world? Before you come here to your world, and don't forget that you are going to cross many worlds before you get to 20 to be able to say, okay, in the time of Jesus, then, in the time of Paul, then what do we have today? So there's no way you cannot. Whether you like it or not, you become an automatic historian. As a Bible teacher that doesn't like history will model up facts. You must put up history. What happened at this time, what happened before this period. Because when the facts are wrong, theology cannot be correct, no matter how much you try.

So we mentioned that Matthew 28, 18, 20, all authority in heaven and earth is given to me. Again, you go back to Matthew, see how he derives the heaven and earth concept. The kingdom of heaven is at hand, and all of that he brings, that he doesn't mention God, like Luke will mention God. Matthew 5, your Father, which is in heavenly Father. All those words are all over Matthew. So the concept of heaven is a distinction and not a distance. Okay? In Matthew, so it's a heaven and earth, which is again an underlining, figural reading of Moses's writings, where he brings in the tabernacle, all of that becomes relevant. Nehemiah 8, verse 7. He caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place.

So they read in the book, in the law of God distinctly and give the saints and cause them to understand. Look at that word. Because we said the Torah is doctrine and doctrine will have a lot of things. So you must not see the Torah as a singular document, just a singular emphasis. And James 1:8, Joshua 1:8, this book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. And you notice that in Exodus 18, those elders were judging matters, teaching, overseeing. So the Torah was. It took their entire life. It was about their entire lives as Jews or Israelites.

If you notice that the epistles kinda intent, there'll be instructions about you and the government, you and your staff, you are your boss, you and your children, you are your husband, you are your wife, you are society, you know, and there weren't details of commerce and all of that. It was basically, you know, your conduct in the midst of the activities, you know, and all of that. So the Torah therefore is doctrine. That's exactly what it is. So it says that they gave them sense. The word sense there in the Hebrew refers to what you can talk about being Witty, being smart. 1St Samuel 25, verse 3, 1 Samuel 25, 3, woman of good understanding. 1St Chronicles 22:12, 1 Chronicles 26:14 Ezra 8:18, Ezra 8:18, A man of understanding.

So the Joshua 1:8, this book of Lord shines out of the mouth, shall meet it day and night, and observe to do all that is written there. And then you make your way prosperous and have good success. We said that is similar to Paul writing to Timothy. Now, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. Profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God will be truly for his perfect unto every good work. Okay, so we said that whenever you are reading the Epistles, you are reading the Old Testament. Let me repeat what I said. The Old Testament is going somewhere. It's called the Epistles. The Epistles is coming from somewhere. It is called the Old Testament. And the bridge between both are the four Gospels.

The four Gospels is the fulfillment of what was fulfilled, all right, or the character story of the person who fulfills the entire 39 books of the Old Testament. So exegetically, it means that in systematic theology you must read backwards, okay, and know the narratives behind terms and phrases and concepts and read forward to know the future of statements that were made. What is the future of statements that were made in the Old Testament? So a few questions are here. I just go through them as much as we can this session. And there are other areas we're going to look at on Thursday. Some of them are the questions I probably threw at some of you. Thursday, a few things like that, then Saturday as well. I think by Saturday, we'll be able to group the laws together and tell us, how right is this?

So righteousness, at times we have to execute it properly to be viewed in the world. In the journey of God's fulfillment, in that predictive nature, there are certain things that cannot be perfect. Okay, but they will be, right. They cannot be perfect. You know, I mentioned that. Okay, we want to make sure that there's no flooding in an area. They will tell you how you must build your house and all that. I bought my house, I bought my land. I can build anything there. No, you have to. Then, okay, you put it there. And they are saying, you know, I consider people now when they drive across this place. Oh, but then how can they go there? And then Jesus owned the whole land. Then he says, I'm not building at all.

You know, he has achieved the goal without all the rules you gave. Do you understand what I'm talking about here? So therefore, the guy that says, okay, I'll put my house here it is right, okay. But the righteousness of God is that when Jesus now came, he took everything on himself and didn't build anything. So we must understand the journey of idioch Ozune, where from the world, the fallen world, and the example of Adam that spread across the nations of the world. God walks through it. Walks through idolatry, walks through. I mean, in his faithfulness. And then, you know, here, till Jesus now said, you have heard. Now I see. And what you heard was not wrong, but it was not the righteousness writing or the full righteousness. It had a predictive nature. It had a goal of which I have come to.

To reach. So this is all within the concept. And so we must avoid what we said the other time. We have a different loose interpretation of scriptures based on certain things. One of them is called the Antonin. That is where people say, well, now that you are born again, the essence of justification by faith is that no matter what you doesn't matter. What matters is you have believed once. And we have seen that is error. Because in as much as a man is in the family, by the Spirit is born and is in the family has a mission on earth, okay? And that mission must be carried out. It's part of the righteousness of God. So all that will be in view as we study hope. I'm making sense. Okay, now some quick questions I want us to answer.

What then determined the time that Jesus came? What determined it? Let's give it a loose interpretation. God determined it. Okay, that may look like this is it. God determined it. Now, I'll give you some schools of thought and it's good to know those things because in theology you equally are answering questions and you must be able to argue positions appropriately. Now there's a school of thought that says that God gave Adam authority over the earth and Adam lost to Satan and so Jesus came to get it back. Something like that, which has a whole lot of loopholes, but the sense is still the fact that the earth was given to man. And the beauty of it is what we find as science, where knowledge is used to take care of humanity. That's the beauty of it.

But then we have the negative part of it and a couple of things like that. So in that order, it's believed that the world will not come to an end until the lease that God gave to Adam will expire. But nobody has been able to determine when that lease will be over. You know, in fact, it made some people predict that it is. The Bible says after three days. Maybe you are not conversant with the year 2000 prediction the other three days. Then you look at the Uzir prophecy. After three days I'll raise him again that the first day is the first 2000 years, then the second 2000 years when Jesus came, because calculated usually that between Genesis and four Gospels is 2000 years. Then, then till year 2000 is 2000 years. I think I'm. Is that it? Am I right?

No, no, I think it's 4000. Sorry, is it 4000? I forgot. 2000. 2000. So 4000 to Jesus. Yes, I think I got that mixed up then from Jesus till year 2000. So it was believed that within that period that the earth will fold up because of the. A day with the Lord is like a thousand years, you know, and stuff like that. And some have said, no, it's 7,000 because that is the seventh day. All sorts of concepts have been derived, but the truth is those numeracy was Egypt that Moses picked it from Egypt. Paul will say, you are going back to idol worship if you keep recording those kind of things. So all those details in Bible interpretation can be so slippery that if you don't get them right, you will be confused.

So the question is we have seen that the seed Genesis 1:11, we work around that is the seed of Genesis 3:15 and then the seed of Genesis 12:3, Genesis 15, Adam, Abraham, Genesis, then to Romans and all of that. So what determined when the seed will come. Now, or what is called the fullness of time, Abba Cook 2. Sorry, do we get the Abraham Adam contrast? Was that clear enough? I'm asking everybody, was that clear enough? Okay, Abacoek. 2. Now, of course, the verse four is the most popular. The just shall live by faith. And I said that every time a text like that is mentioned. It's a cryptic way of asking you to read the whole book. And when you do, you must read the background behind the book. And that may take you all the way to Genesis.

So in this light you have a phrase in verse three, I will stand upon verse one upon my watch and set upon the tower, and I will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I will answer when I am reproved. And the Lord answered and said to me, write the vision and make it plain upon the tables that he may run that reads it. For the vision is yet for an appointed time. By the end it shall speak and not lie, though it shall tarry, wait for it, because it will surely come. It will not tarry without going further. Right? Just if you are a student of scripture, you are not the kind of that reads it in piecemeals. You will have seen two words have a background.

It will come, okay, the appointed time wait for will not lie to speak. You will see that this is the birth of Isaac in the background. Now, before we go further, just verse three says the appointed time. Now that phrase is moged moed from where you have the verb yad y double a d to appoint or to put in place. Genesis 1:14 There shall be light in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day and the night, and let them be signs and seasons, days and years. Signs, seasons, days and years. So look at Genesis 17, verse 21, 1721 for my covenant will I establish, Isaac, which Sarah shall be unto thee at this set time the next year. Genesis 18:14 at the time appointed, I will return unto thee According to time of life, Sarah shall have a son.

This all happened within a year. Genesis 21:2 Sarah conceived, bore, and bore Abraham a son in his old age at the set time of which God has spoken to him. So that means that whatever Abba Cook is saying here is a Genesis principle. Okay, Whatever was promised to Abraham and Sarah is what Abbak now saw being a prophet in what you can call apocalyptic fashion or scatological or predictive way. So in Habakkuktu, let's quickly solve a small issue there. In verse two, write the vision and make it plain that he may run that reads it. Now in the Hebrew, the pronouns are Again, absent, they are implied. So you have he. It just means run. That reads it. You may put they, you may put him or them. King James has put he, verse 3.