By 11:12, Paul has entered 13, Peter is off the story, except he comes in again to authenticate Paul's gospel in Acts 15. So it is the act of Paul. Amen. Do you understand? You know, Acts of the apostle, Acts of the Holy Spirit, call it whatever you like, but it is a defense brief on behalf of Paul. And that's why we saw O Theophilus, which means that there was somebody who was a noble in the land that Luke was writing. Look, this man has done nothing. This thing you have believed, this is the authentication. Then the volume two is the Book of Acts. Is that making sense? Okay, that's to understand context. All right. Are we together? So in other words, the breaking up of the chapters itself and the verses has already compromised our thinking. When it says according to the Scriptures, it.

It is expected therefore, that a Christian should read the whole Old Testament. And that's why some of us, what we simply would do in the way we read the Old Testament is we just look for favorite places. Favorite places. Now, Psalm 91 is a favorite of some people at this moment. You know, just go there straight away. Ignore the context, ignore what is being said. Just pick up some verses and nobody understands anything that way. The moment you keep reading like that, your understanding will be punctured here and there. And that's why our persuasion about God is halfway. It's not because we are not for all. It's just. I just hope. I just hope. I believe. Because you have not given it the kind of. I mean, look at how bold you are about your professional discipline.

You know exactly what you are talking about. You. Because you have given your attention to. You studied it, you practiced it. But why are we not like that with the faith? Because we have not given it that kind of attention. We have quoted it out of context. I said this last night and you laughed. I said, some of you have learned to lift the Scriptures high, high, high. So sometimes it's, how high can you go above outside context? How high can you go to lift it? Lift him up higher, lift it up higher. Lift it higher than the context and make it say what you want to see. So therefore, by using this phrase according to the Scriptures, catastrophe, Paul expects. Reader, beware. Read it well he's saying, you are going to read Christ's story in Men's Story, 2nd Timothy 2, Eight.

Remember, Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead. And according to my Gospel, according to all the good news that he was speaking from the Old Testament. So two things that prevails in this thought. If Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, therefore Paul begins to mark out death by saying that when you see death and evil according to the Scriptures, you will see God as a victim or God as the. Not God as the actor, but God as the sufferer. And if Christ is God and Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. So in our proper reading of the Old Testament, it means that the ultimate victim, or let's say I take the word victim back, the ultimate victim, vicarious liability is on God.

Vicarious simply means somebody takes it on behalf of another or bears responsibility of another, it will be found on God. So that means we have to go back and reread the Scriptures and see it according to the Scriptures. Death that is raised from the dead according to the Scriptures. He died according to the Scriptures, raised from the dead and according to the Scriptures. And we have said it also that without the four Gospels, Paul will accurately know why Christ came and why he did what he did. Because even the writers of the Synoptic interpreted Christ's life according to the Scriptures, they didn't rely only on the eyewitness evidence. That would have been befuddling. They had to go to the Scriptures to interpret what Jesus has done.

So does this still suffice to say that Paul's revelation will be, I mean, of Jesus will be independent of eyewitness account? Yes, to the degree where he also conforms according to the Scripture. However, the eyewitness account confirms the revelation of Paul. Because without Jesus being witnessed as coming, dying and being raised from the dead, Paul's revelation will have a lot of gaps that can't be filled. It will look like an illusion, like a fiction. That said, we now have to ask a fundamental question. And I, and I purposely wrote it here. And I said, technical understanding is in my note that way. Now we break up the context of Scripture. You know, everything has its context.

And which means that at every juncture, in every statement, you know, at every time, I mean, a guy made a comment to me last night and I replied, last night, last afternoon. And he started laughing. I was very serious. He said, he's a university undergraduate. So he said, I am going home today, sir. Finally. I said, finally being the context so he started laughing. I said, but I was serious because I'm going home really is regular statement. By using the word finally, you want to give me a context of saying I don't go often or I've not been there as I should. By introducing the word finally, you are saying that the context is that I don't go often.

Now, it looks like an ordinary conversation, but it requires intelligence to understand what I just said by introducing a phrase you have already thrown in the context of what you are talking about because it's not an event that you are going home. But to say finally it means either somebody had been asking to come for a while, you haven't come, or you have been longing to be there. So finally I've thrown your statement into context. I said that to say that virtually every writer of the epistles would require to add the beginning concept that is the book of Genesis. It therefore means that the context of the entire Bible is the book of Genesis. The context of the entire Bible is the book of Genesis. I'll take that again. The context of the entire Bible is the book of Genesis. That's the context.

Now let's go technically, let me break it down into bits and I think you will get it. The context of. You know we have 39 books in the Old Testament, right? The Context of the 39 books is the first five, okay? Because the first five is the basis of the other 34. The context of the five will therefore follow a normal sequence of reading which came first naturally. You will see Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy. But then we can also rearrange it in a format and say, well, Genesis is the message. Exodus is the event, okay? Leviticus is the instruction of worship. Numbers is the experience. Deuteronomy is to renew the instructions of worship. So we will say therefore that. Pay attention. That that means the background of Deuteronomy will be numbers. Something must have happened to have a second law.

Then the background of Numbers is that there was a law given on worship that was broken. Leviticus. Then why was the law given to be for worship? Because they were delivered from the power of darkness. Called that Egypt. Called that sin. Called that Pharaoh. You are correct. So that's the context. Now the context of that is that a promise was made in Genesis, which is a message in both Exodus 9, Leviticus, Deuteronomy and Numbers. Leviticus, Numbers and Deuteronomy. Which again means that the context will be Genesis. Now pay attention. Again, that means the context of Genesis itself is the first two chapters which means that we must therefore read the Bible in such a way that we say this will be understood from the first two chapters. Genesis chapter one and Genesis chapter two will technically therefore be the very technical context of Scripture.

And that brings to mind a few things. It's always good to go to the beginning. How many of you have had the time to when you lose your way. And the best way to get your way back is to go to the beginning. And it's the same, we go back to the beginning when you lose your way in a chapter, go back to the beginning. Maybe you missed out something. So for example, when you start looking at contradictions of Scripture, oftentimes it's because people either deliberately, subconsciously or mischievously miss out the beginning of scriptures. And that's why Jesus highlighted to those guys in Matthew 19. But you know, in the beginning it was not so. Read it well, you know, it was not so. So by making mention of that, it means that I could go and reread Genesis 1 and 2.

Then I see the word good, good. And darkness wasn't called good, good. Then it is not good. Genesis 2:18, then Genesis 2:18 it is not good has a background. Genesis 2:16, the tree of knowledge of good and evil. When you eat of it, you will die. When you eat of it, you will die. So I already can see the Genesis, the context of death. So if I know that the context of death is sin and that sin is to disobey God or not believe him or not accept his hands of fellowship or hands of deliverance, then I don't have to be confused at later narratives because I already have a context.

If I therefore know that sin is man made and death a creation of a man made activity, therefore I will not in any way be fair to remove man from the narratives of death and sin. It's not possible. So having understood that context, I keep reading. Okay, and I see, okay, where is the first person who was killed? It was Abel. He was killed by his brother. He was killed by his brother Cain. And you know, if you observe again, one of the things that Cain said was, am I my brother's keeper? Which means that it is not unlikely that I can explain that a bit to you. Almost putting the blame on God, you know, and it's, it will show throughout history that there will be a blame cast on God about what men orchestrated.

And we can, you know, go on and say, well, that means the death came by wrath and anger, etcetera and etcetera. Wrath was first found in man. Anger was first found in man. Bitterness was first found in man. Sin was first found in man. It was not there at the beginning. And death was first found through man. So the context, therefore, will guide my narratives. I will therefore reread it. If I go to how everybody was just cleared and killed in the name of God, then I say, that couldn't have been possible, because in the beginning, we know the genesis of death. And Paul crafted in such a way. Right, sorry. As I say, Paul, Moses, in such a way that he lets you know that God came.

Now, those are just images that they were hiding and God came, which means that when it happened, when it entered, God wasn't there. So if I understand that context, it therefore means that I should be able to read through all the narratives. I'm going to also mention something that will get to the real issues of today. Look at the I said we're going to view the epistles, just steal some information and hope you get the revelation. McKenkin says you steal information, you can't steal revelation. And you have the word kill. And you have thou shalt not kill, which is a commandment reinforced by love. Romans, chapter 10. Sorry, 13, Verse 9. Thou shalt not kill. Romans 13 and verse 9, quoting from Exodus 20:13 thereabouts. However, you have in Romans chapter, and you also have that in. In the ten Commandments that we said.

And then you now see In Romans, chapter 8, verse 13, if you live after the flesh, you shall die. Interesting. Who will kill you? If you live after the flesh, you shall die. He didn't say God will kill you, so already shows you the consequence of it. That is like rephrasing Genesis 2, 16, 17. Then he says, but if you through the Spirit, do mortify the deeds of the body. Body, There is a soma used in Romans 6, 6, the body of sin. If you through the Spirit, mortify the deeds of the body, you shall live. And use the word mortify, a word that is from the word thanatos. T H E N A T O S. It means to make, to die. So he says, thou shalt not kill. But it says the Spirit kills, mortify. To make, to die.

Romans 7 and 4. You have become dead to the law by the body of Christ. So by the body of Christ, you are brought to death. So that means that we can use death positively. We can use death positively when death kills death or death kills sin. And it says it's by the Spirit. Another phrase. You are going to Say, and you see, that word is not mistakenly used. It's the same word used for the death of Jesus. Yes, Matthew 26:59, Matthew 27, verse 1. I think Matthew 10:21 equally. Let me just check that so that I. Okay, that's about the relationships. Matthew 13, verse 2, sorry. Mark 13, Mark 13:2, Mark 14:55, Luke 21:16, 1st Peter 3:18 about Jesus. So we have death used possibly by the Spirit. Okay, so the new birth is also death. That is, you have death in life.