Second Thessalonians 2 the mystery of iniquity verse 7. First Timothy 3 the big deacon the mystery of the faith verse 9, First Timothy 316 the mystery of godliness the revelation 120. Now, we don't have a concern. We're saying that the word mystery must refer to the Old Testament because that's the background, right? So why does he use mystery for tongues? Because again, the tongues, the concept of mystery, that which should be explained, will be derived, for example, from Genesis 11, the Babel experience. Then read Genesis 11 to Isaiah 28:11 with men of other tongues. And Paul made reference to that in 1 Corinthians 4:14. Will I speak to these people, you know, and they will not hear. So in other words, tongues is a mystery not to believers, because the believer has the spirit and the interpretation.

Now, that's why the unbeliever is and the believer who is not taught is called the unlearned. So which means that the use of mystery by Paul again refers to the Old Testament teaching of another tongue, where he derives they will mock you. It is not known except by the Spirit. Isaiah 28, you know, brings all that. Let me just give you that reference quickly. Isaiah 28, Verse 11 stammering lips and another tongue shall he speak to his people. So that's the worst timeline lives there is sarcastic the way it will be mocked the way it comes out. And Paul is saying that this is it. So it's at variance with the unbelieving attitude of communication. And he says it's unto God. So if there's any language that is a mode of communication that is common to believers alone, it is tongues. Alone.

That's why it speaks not unto men, but it says unto God. So what we have Therefore, the use of musterion, therefore is the Old Testament in explanation to the muhi. That which was dark is now being spoken of and explained. Psalm78, verse 2, like we mentioned, also the word muhio, you find it in Philippians 4:12 to be instructed. Now, the key to a musterian is faith. So oftentimes it's used for an initiation by knowledge faith. So where a diary menu is equally used. All right. In the instance of a diary menu, Luke 24:27, there are two keywords there. You have the across it the MNU to translate languages. And we have said that the language of the speaker language, the faith language and the common language.

So you are going to die menu is both the language of faith unbelief and the language of the communication is interpretation. As you just embarked on that. Yeah. So did they come to if God is not love in the Old Testament books and they wrote the New Testament and said God is love, then that means they didn't write from the Old Testament. Because if they die menu, it has to be exactly what the Old Testament represents. Did they avoid anything? No, they avoided bumps by being diligent in their mode of interpretation. So is God love in the old testament? Yes. Malachi 3:8. Will a man rob God? 3:6. Why did I go to 3:8? For I am the Lord. I change not. Therefore you sons of Jacob are not consumed. Look at what comes after that. You sons of Jacob are not consumed.

Take note of that statement. We'll come to a few things in a moment. It says I change not. That word is Shanah S H A double n a h28 renderings. In the Old Testament language it means second time is used for double Genesis 4132 sports Samuel 26:8, second Samuel 20:10, I think 1st Kings 14:2 1st Kings 18:34 is used for disguise, is used to alter or to repeat. So this is irrefutable about him. And look at what comes after it. Therefore you are not consumed. And the word Yahweh is used, which shows you by the time you hear Yahweh, every time you hear Yahweh, there are times Elohim is a common language. But when you hear Yahweh, the writer wants you to go to redemption.

So if Yahweh is used in Genesis, even though it wasn't uttered by Abraham, according to moses writing Genesis 6:2, Exodus 6:2 and 3, it means that his redemptive act began at Genesis. Genesis 1:1 through his act began at Genesis, even though it Wasn't so describ. So by saying I changed not as Yahweh, he puts a seal on an irrefutable consistent character in his conduct and words. You read about the love of God and the descriptions used by David. Precisely. Look at Psalm 107, the word olam. His mercies endure forever. Olam is used for that which is in time, over time and over time, and is consistent with what is said about him. In fact, it says his anger. Psalm 30 is but for a moment. Is anger. A moment in his favor is life.

Weeping may endure for the night, joy comes in the morning, showing that even when we disobey, you know, he still is working out his love and tender mercies. That's what his anger means there. It's not his action, it's is ours. That's what David is saying, doing that call that mode of writing. So you find him being described forever in his tender mercies, which shows the irrefutable character of his words and conduct. So a loving God is not a product of the New Testament. Let me stir your heart a bit to look at that conversation in Matthew 22, when a guy came, what is that great commandment of the law? Megas entholy, Matthew 22, verse 35, 36 through 37. That guy that came to ask him, he said, love. That's the first statement.

Love the Lord your God, with all your heart, your mind, some say your soul, he said, and love. Second one is like the first. Love your neighbor as yourself. Upon these two hangs the law and the prophets. Now look up guys. You know when he said, upon these two hangs the law and the prophets is not by mere glance, it's by teaching that you come to that conclusion. Upon this is the conclusion of proper teaching of the law. Love. So the writers of the epistles were not remaking God? No. That's why Paul will boldly Romans 13:10. He will say, love is the fulfilling of scripture, the law. Love is the fulfilling of Scripture. Love God and walk in love. It wasn't difficult there when Jesus taught Matthew 5, 43 and 44, you have heard, love your neighbor, hate your enemy.

We're going to explore all of that I believe in the next couple of days. Because when it says you have heard, we have to read what they heard in their world. That means Jesus interpretation of Moses writing was also in their world. But now I say, love your enemies. Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you. Bless them that curse you. It Wasn't difficult for them to know when he said that you will be like your heavenly Father, who makes his son to rise, his reign to fall. If you love only those who love you, how are you different from the publicans? Be ye therefore perfect. And it's quoting Leviticus 11:44, Be ye perfect, which is the word holy in the Hebrew, as your heavenly father is perfect.

I told you that when he used heavenly father, the Jews knew he was talking about God to them as a nation. The only challenge was when he said, I am the Son. Do you get it? Aha. Did I have a problem with the heavenly Father? So when he said that, when he was done teaching, they said he spoke not like the scribe, but one who properly explained it, who had authority. And he was teaching from the scriptures, the Jewish scriptures. Now why was he able to present God in that light? Because that was how he was in that light. In the Old Testament, it simply meant Jesus respected the use of words. The Jews knew the use of words. He was able to make distinctions in the causative, the permissive verbs. So they understood what he was saying.

Let me show you understand what I'm saying here. So he, by saying he wasn't creating an image, a new one. No, it wasn't. So the loving God is not a New Testament image of God. It's only the New Testament language that is clear to you. If you ask the Jews, why did the fire come, they will say, our disobedience. Oh, but they said God did it. Yes, God did it. By not helping us when we disobeyed, they will tell you what it meant, but in the way it was written to us. In my language, as a Nigerian, when you say God did it, I said I would practically see him bring out the fire, but the language understood that he couldn't stop the fire. Does it make sense? So we are presented with the capacity here that we must develop.

And again, don't forget, a lazy student or teacher will just say. He will just use what I just said. Now, as a general rule, no, you must take each case properly. I said, when Jesus said, you have heard, you know that you can put away your wife for so and so purpose. He was quoting Moses. So here is Moses. And when Paul was going to explain, he said that the Lord was our schoolmaster unto Christ. That is incremental levels. God was walking through their traditions, their culture, their justice system, their commercial system, walking through until we got to Jesus. So we see all of that. So the revelation of the love of God is an Old Testament fact. The loving, tender. Look at Moses. I mean, would you miss it? Where Moses said, I know. Look at. Okay, let me. Let's go. Jonah.

Jonah was sent to go and warn Nineveh. Why would you go and warn someone because you love them? Are you warning them about what you want to do? No. Donna goes and he finds out that before he got there, the people already had a contrite heart. And they repented as he spoke to them. So he said, what's the point? Why did I come? He said, I have always known you that you are compassionate, slow to roll, unwilling. You are even unwilling to abandon them when they abandon you. You are gracious. Did you see that? Moses said the same thing. That you know your tenderness visiting the iniquity of the fatherborn in third generation of those who hate you. I will know you. So in our interpretation, we have said vision, liquidity. Imagine how we translate that.

That means to begin to pound them their head. And then he says, you are gracious and merciful. They will think that it's greater and merciful. Whereas it is a use of words knowing the pacad at that point, which again is contextual in usage. So the loving God, how do you see a God who after he had just been disobeyed, promised a redeemer? Genesis 3, 15 and 16. So it is not a sudden discovery in the New Testament. It only appears to us like that because we have refused to read the Old Testament in his world and in their language. Let's look at two scenarios. Now, there's a statement I want us to carefully review, and that is that the New Old Testament is progressive revelation of God.

Now, while that statement stands legitimate, it must require qualifiers so that we don't present a God who is difficult to be known or for you to know. 2Nd Samuel 24:1. And again the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them to say, go number Israel and Judah. In fact, in my earlier years in teaching, this is. I guess it was late 1994 or 95. This was one of the scriptures that told me, we have a preacher of the world, has work to do. And the way I heard it was very interesting. The person talking about it was not explaining it. He just quoted this verse that God moved David to sin. I didn't have much answers to what he said, but he now gave the answer unknowingly. I'll get to that in a moment.

He gave the answer unknowingly as he was speaking. So imagine having this at the back of your mind that the anger of the Lord was the kingdom against Israel. And what you thought anger meant was, I heard you did this. I am going to do this to you, to this world. Meanwhile, anger could also mean silence. Contextually, it can also mean vituperations, actions, vengeance, and all of that. It can also mean silence. Of course, I didn't know. So at that point, you feel, okay, God can be so angry, he will now cause you to make him more angry. Now, not knowing that 2nd Samuel 24:1 is an idiomatic expression. Let me put it in these words. David David moved into the anger of God by numbering Israel. David moved to anger God, to disobey God by numbering Israel. David, let's have that one.