So these are the kinds of arrangements we have in the Old Testament world where a man gives his service in return. And why is he called a servant? Because he is charging an obligation or a monetary debt. Let's look at a typical example. Jacob in the house of Laban. Look at it. Jacob in the house of Laban or Laban. Genesis30. Or 29. Okay, verse 30. Jacob saw Richard, daughter of Laban, his mother's the sheep of Laban, his mother's brother. That Jacob went near and all the stone and. And Jacob kissed Rachel and little and wet and the father's brother, and he was Rebekah's son. And she ran and told her father, so you can see again that they are family. And Cain went, Laban had things, okay, and then Laban said, surely thou art my bone and flesh. Verse 14.

Then Laban said unto Jacob, because thou art my brother, should therefore serve me for nothing. Tell me, what shall be your wages? 16. Laban had two daughters. The name of the elder, Leah. The name was yoga Rachel. Leah was tender eyed, but Rachel was beautiful and well flavored. He said, I will serve these seven years for Rachel that younger. So you can see that is what it is. He wanted to get something, okay, so he gave his services. That's women are very powerful. How many years? So he says, going to serve him for that long. So we have those kind of instances. The narrative of scripture therefore will be a willingness servant or a servant of debt. Now oftentimes the debt is owned or owed, sorry owed by families.

So where that happens or because there's, you know, failed crops in a harvest season or in debtness, the father would therefore now enter into a contractual agreement to sell himself to work for another person. Leviticus 25, verse 47. Verse 47. If it's a journey of stranger tax rich by thee and thy brother that dwelleth poor and set unto the stranger of sojourner for thee to the stock of the stranger's family. So like you know you are owing, then he sells himself or he sells his servant, sometimes his children and his wife may, you know, be added to help out. So this is what they mean by redemption. So a person of the family called the king's man Redeemer, will now come to pay off the debt or will work as a servant until his brother is released.

Put that at the back of your mind looking at the work of redemption. Also, they could mortgage family land up till the 50th year. Now let's look at something very critical about how again, we're going to observe it in their world. I thought, I'll go read out some of these things. But it's quite exhaustive where you look at the slave laws of their world. I discovered that in the entire world at that time, the laws of Moses were the mildest in the whole world. I've checked as many historical facts as possible. It was the mildest in their world. So it therefore becomes unfair if a man begins to single it out as though Israel was the entire world. Israel was a nation among many nations. In fact, it was a migrant nation.

They were moving from place to place till they settled in the place. So you have, you know, different things. Leviticus 25 is somewhere. You read very well from verse 25 to 54. Yeah. How redemption is done, someone comes along, pays, and all of that. We'll see the great percolatesis in a moment. So however, here, this well in Israel, or whether in their exodus or when they settled their laws of servitude, was demounted. I'm going to say it again. In fact, it is believed that the conditions were inserted by Moses deliberately to make them different from other nations of the world. Let me add this. The subject of human rights, where you talk about human beings not to be discriminated, came from the laws of Moses, I think called the abbey's corpus or so. And in fact, later on you could check this.

Jeremiah 34, verse 12 to 22, Where God, you know, condemned the violation of the law of Moses. One of the things that he says to them is, remember that you were also slaves and you were redeemed from the land of Egypt. So which means that the teaching of service that was given to Israel, the laws were meant to remind them how, you know, God rescued them from tyranny and all of that. One key element is in. Now let me add again, servanthood is not also imposed. It's something that a man renders. Of course, he wants to discharge a debt, an obligation. But it is not like somebody is seized from his land, then forced to go and walk somewhere. No. Secondly, is that the moment this. It always has a timeline.

The moment this fellow is decided Obligation, he becomes free again, and he can do whatever you know he wishes to do without further obligations at all. When this happens, this servant is a full participator in the society. So all that happens is that just like the scripture says, the servant, sorry, the borrower is the servant of the lender. He just has his citizen step down a little bit. Like his rights are waived not because that is being cheated upon, but because he has to discharge an obligation. But the moment he discharges that obligation, he returns back as a full citizen. Or wait for this, the year of jubilee, the seventh year. The seventh year, sorry, which is the Sabbath. Seventh Sabbath year is usually that period where no matter how long you have been a servant, all your debts are discharged.

You will see the intent in a moment. So that on his own shows you a step down from what obtained in their world, either the seventh year or the 50th year. It shows that it was therefore not intended that anyone should be a servant for life. So if you are owing money at that particular year, it is discharged. Look at Leviticus 25. Please keep your attention there. Verse 53. As a yearly servant shall be with him, and the other shall not rule with right rigor over him in thy sight. If he be not redeemed in this year, then he shall go out in the year of jubilee, both he and his children with him. Let's look at verse 55, which is what guided the service laws, the slavery laws. I use that phrase. Let's write together.

For unto me, the children of Israel are servants. They are my servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt and Lord your God. We're going to see the importance of that. So servants were not cut off from the society. Every seven years, whatever you are owing will discharge it. So you can't be a servant for life. Whereas in the other counterpart nations, that wasn't applicable. It is true that I checked some of these laws, Hittite laws. They did have periods where they left discussion of the slave owner to grant a release, but it was not fixed. The one Moses gave is a law. It's not at your discretion. It's not sporadic. It's not something you can just be spontaneous about. After the sixth year, by the seventh year, he let the guy go. So it's called the year of release.

So therefore, in land of Israel, permanent lifelong servanthood was not allowed. Unless yourself, you want to stay with that family. Exodus 21:5. If the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife and my children, and I will not go out free. You know that's an act of your will. You know I love him, I will serve him. This is what is now applicable to the New Testament minister. That I'm bound to Christ and to his Word to serve him and all of that. Also. Deuteronomy 15. Teaches that in the seventh year, also of the celebration of the seventh year, thou shalt make a release. Verse 1. Every Creator that is lent unto his neighbor shall release it, shall not exact it. So you begin to maybe begin to arouse your debtor in the sixth year.

Don't let us wait till the seventh year. So it is believed in many scholars that the language of slavery was not in the Hebrew language. That is a wrong translation. That is servanthood, Indian church servanthood. I checked it. Which is a servanthood by contract is what was taught in the Hebrew language. That's something again, language will do. Therefore, we can safely say that the laws of the seven years was a control regulation to prevent abusing it and making servanthood an institution. Which means that every seven years Israel is reminded that poverty induced servanthood is not good in a society. Poverty induced. So it was basically a case of poverty. Secondly, the reason for servanthood was because poverty exists in the nation. Now I want us to bring you to our world.

The truth is that, you know, people work for others because maybe they have other bills to pay. And that fellow has services that you can render, then he pays you. In fact, today I know institutions where they will send you on a training and you will sign that when you come back. You won't be left somewhere. You bring your skills, work for them, or some of them have a package, all the money, you return it, you know, that's slavery. You have collected that money, you went for training. That's the way it is. So basically it's because of luck that this system was put in place. So it's important for us to see that and I want us to see it. Like I said, we look at the spirit of what he's saying.

I believe that strongly and I submit strongly that the reason why this was allowed in Israel was to address poverty. So in today's world it would be contract of employment. Therefore, servanthood should therefore be seen as a means to tackle poverty. In the ancient world. That's in the world near ancient near Eastern time. Properties slavery had similar characteristics or they had three characteristics, whether it's a property or a servant. One, they saw slaves as properties, servants. Two, the right of a slave owner over a slave was absolute. And then they usually stripped the Servant or the slave of his identity, whether it's racial, whether it's emotional, whether his family is taken, or even marital. But from scripture, the Jews or Israel didn't treat servants that way. The laws were meant to control the servants and the masters. I say boss and employee relationships.

Now, don't forget that it's not an ideal situation, but you see, it's an improvement of something that is way different from what was obtained in their world. Once again, knowing that servanthood in Israel was occasioned by poverty, it's not somebody being kidnapped and thrown somewhere and then it begins to serve. No, it's because there's a lack and a need. And so what Moses would do is to make sure that poverty situation does not put unnecessary powers in the hands of the employers. Now, let's see a few things. We have said already, that poverty was wide, they had servants and all that. In the Near Eastern. I'm going to refer to some of them, the Hittite laws. You will discover that the servant laws were meant to benefit the rich and not the poor, whereas in Israel it was the opposite.

Leviticus 25, again, verse 39 and 47. If thy brother that dwells with thee be waxing poor and be sold unto thee, thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bond servant, same thing as verse 47. Deuteronomy 15, verse 12. If thy brother, an Hebrew man, an Hebrew woman, be sold unto thee, and serve thee six years, then in the seventh year, thou shalt let him go free from you. So basically, again, the moment someone, by the seventh year, or by the time the obligation is free from you, he's not any more different. So it's only a slight variation. It's easy, that is, your rights are waived, you are working for somebody, you have to pay back a debt and all of that. So therefore, we can say, therefore the laws of Moses were to prevent a voluntary debt service.

It's not every time somebody owes you money that he has to serve. He has to be willing to serve to pay back that debt. This crucial fundamental is very key. He will be the one to say, okay, I'll do it. That's why I said, you cannot force him. That's how. Of course there are different laws that will not address debts. But the truth is that to serve you, to discharge a debt has to be voluntary. And we said that it was. Many of them were meant to protect the poor. Leviticus 19, let's see a few places. And verse nine, it says, those who are poor. Okay. When you Read the house of your land. They shall not wholly reap the corners of the field. Leave some areas. Okay. He says, thou shalt not glean thy vire, neither shalt thou gather every grape of them.