And then we found out that actually at the end of the day, what death held the righteous for Jesus came and then he set them free. We look at the end and then we are thankful for hell. It is Sheol. So we will have to walk through the imperfect process to see the perfect plan. I said that to say God wants. Did God want to bless the Canaanites? Yes. Did God love them? Yes. Did he want them to worship idols? No. Did they rebel? No. Did Israel have the mandate to go around the world as a nation of kings and priests? Yes. Were they efficient? No. Were they sufficient? Yes. Because you look at. There's no sufficiency in Noah's Ark. There's no sufficiency or efficiency in how Abraham and Isaac and Sarah. And then you have Ishmael, you have. Everything goes just messy.

Sarah, Ishmael. Then you now had Agar and all of that. Jacob, Esau and all the 12 tribes. Everything. But it's from the same 12 tribes where, as it were, Jacob was swindled, just like he was a swindler. To have a wife and then kids is the same tribe that the Messiah was born. Bathsheba, David. The Messiah has come from that. David is supposed to be an illegitimate child whose mom wasn't known because the father must have had out of wedlock. God walks through the emotions. We'll have to sit back and read through the story of man's imperfection, God's perfection, and lift our hands and say, what a wonderful God. This is the story of the Bible. The Canaanites will eventually come back in the entire story and they will be found in God's redemptive plan.

Zechariah, chapter 9, Psalm 87, verse 4 to 6, Isaiah 19:23 to 25. And if you like, Matthew 15:22, Jesus had the Canaanite woman, specifically the Syrophoenician woman, said, what great faith have I found in you? And you find that the same Canaanite that he calls daughter. So we have the same Israel as a nation. Not that they were special. Read their stories very well. Whether you see 2 Kings 17, 7, 41, or you look at 2 Chronicles 36, 15:21, five to six hundred years before Christ, they are taken away into Babylon. They mix with the Assyrians. They are in trouble. And even after Jesus came, there was still captivity. Now this sets the stage for the four Gospels. By the time Jesus was to come, another exile had happened. Because once again Israel had failed. But the setting was clear. Pay attention.

By the time Jesus came, Israel had come back together again. They had returned from exile, even though there was exile. Secondly, the temple was already in place and they had returned to know that there's just one God, Messiah. And critically, they were expecting an Exodus. The stage, therefore was said. Every event in history appointed at the same singular end. Paul in Galatians 4:4 will say, at the fullness of time, God sent his Son made of a woman. Don't forget this. Made under the law to redeem. What's redeemed? Exodus language. At the fullness of time. So what does it mean? Just like Exodus, they look forward to Yahweh. They're in bondage. Their enjoyment was over. They're in exile. They want to worship God. And Moses comes at that time. Same thing happens in Matthew 1, Luke 1 and Mark 1.

The Messiahs come at the fullness of time. Play mo. The order of events. Things have happened properly. Now God will walk through everything for redemption. That means there can be forgiveness of sins without sin. There can be redemption without bondage. There can be acceptance without separation. Did God cause the bondage? No. Did he cause the separation? No. Did he cause sin? No. But he will use it for his glory. Paul will say, all these things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. And then he uses vital elements of grace. He foreknew, he predestined, he conformed to the image of his Son. He fornew, he justified, he glorified. Those are great terms. Now the stages said now there's nothing you can do. You can only expect salvation. Then I'll do it.

Not for what you have done and the story of Israel till Jesus presents those things all so I can teach salvation and grace with the background that Paul does in Romans, Ephesians, Philippians, by looking at the story of Israel. So this leaves us with another key issue. Guess we'll just take this on then. Put a break on to Wednesday. Another issue will now be all right, we've sorted this out. Israel fought wars because wars were part of human history. Hope that's clear enough. And the wars are Diakos Sunni. They were righteous. Not every war. They were righteous. I would have shown you somewhere where they were meant never to. The soldiers, for example. Okay, I'll say. I'll get to that. The soldiers were never meant to be paid. They were never meant to be paid. They were never the same things that was.

They were never meant to. Israel was never meant to have a consistent standing army. We see all that later. Their own. So the fullness of time will be. Everything is set. And Exodus is waited. For now. The stage is set. Just like Exodus 2 and 3. The stage is set, Christ came. And another element we will need to see and which Moses sets for us, is that there was a spiritual warfare equally in the Old Testament. If you didn't see it earlier, you should have that in Egypt they had gods. And not just gods, they had demons. Leviticus 17:7, Deuteronomy 32, 16, 21. And the Psalmist reminds us equally in Psalm 106, we read that before 37 and 38, Isaiah 65, 3. So Pharaoh himself was supposed to be a God, a deity.

And what happened was God was called a man of war, and he wasn't the one picking up the guns or the swords. That's not what he's referring to. Referring to is referring to a greater element. Paul will write from these stories in First Corinthians 10, 19, 22. And let's see, that is spiritual war. Second Corinthians 6:14, Temple of God, Temple of Idols 2 to 16, Ephesians 6, 12, 18. Therefore, that will formulate the cryptic aspect of what happened, which means that as in Egypt, there were signs done by Moses that were spiritual in nature. Every deity had a sign used to judge it, whether it's the fly, Lord of the flies, whether it's the waters, whether all of it, till the firstborn. The issue of firstborn was Pharaoh himself. That was the last one.

Think like Paul and say the last enemy, the one that is the major one, the final one, finally. And this was where the deliverance came in. And they perished in the sea because they are said to do what the Israelites did without the power of God. That sets the background for ultimate destruction. What happened to Pharaoh was that they were trying to go through the sea with their own power. But somebody asked a question, why didn't God save them? They didn't want him to. They were rebelling against his power. So Moses took those who believed with him across the sea. Egypt and his army tried to go through it in their power, and then they perish. That sets the tone for judgment and destruction. It's not God doing something. It's God doing something by not doing it.

So by the time you read Egypt and you see this is spiritual, they woke up one morning, everywhere is dark. That is not something fought with guns. That is a spiritual warfare. So which means while on the surface Israel will fight the containment battle to stop idol worship via military conquest, there's something greater happening. And that is taking care of the idols in the spirit. Paul will look back at that and he says, the weapons of our warfare are not canal. What has he done? He has put aside the imperfections of Israel's words and he has picked on the one that matters. Where the deities were put to shame. And Paul says they are in the strongholds of men's imaginations. This is what we do when we preach the gospel.

That's why when Jesus cast out demons, he lets us know it's a sign of something greater. You must bind the strong man, or seven greater spirits are going to come and possess the man. In other words, he's saying to you that this is not deliverance. This is a sign of deliverance. Deliverance is aphesis, forgiveness of sins. All of those things are read together. So therefore God is called the God of mercy. War. Exodus 15:3 Psalm 24, 7, 10. Not because he uses guns, is because he doesn't use it. And Jesus will come to do just that. He put to shame principalities and powers in his death and resurrection. Colossians 2:15. He took care of them in a spiritual format. He said, you will see the Son of Man coming in the clouds. And that happened spiritually speaking. So the key elements for us.

Let's summarize in his relent. And we're going to build on this. Yes, on Wednesday. That the spiritual element was not silent. He was not just as pronounced as the physical was. And the reason for it is what I said earlier. The inefficient yet sufficient means. All right. Will provide the background to see something. What's going on here? The eyeball were being defeated one by one. So for every conquest in Canaan, even though what we saw was a weapon, warfare, a God was defeated. If you didn't know that before, when they left Egypt, they didn't just leave Egypt. They left Egypt with no idol to worship. So within the inefficient, unstable, messy details of human vagaries and ideas, God had to walk through something. We saw the wars, but what was the why the idols? The question is, were the idols taken care of? Yes.

When the Canaanites began to worship Yahweh, the idols were defeated. But when the Jews began to worship the idols, God allowed human volition to take place. Showing you he wasn't particular about any nation. It was about sin and not ethnicity. Let me see how you can follow what I'm saying. You got to think so let's take a few summaries. Then we call it a day today. And we trust God that they will allow us on Wednesday. The first key things we need to understand is that there was a whole lot of supernatural power in the background. Now this is the game. We said Israel had an untrained military force. Now that may not make sense to you, but it will make sense to every general. And they'll say that means there's the grace of God in the background. Define it the way you like.

Secondly, they never had a standing army in 2nd Samuel chapter 24, Second Samuel 24. Remember from verse one when he wanted to number Israel through to verse 17, he said, I have sinned, I have done wickedly. It wasn't meant to number them. Because their wars were not supposed to be for professionals. They were for volunteers, for those who couldn't really handle physical warfare. Neither was there wars for faint hearted men. They were to be bold, they were to be courageous. Secondly, I mentioned it earlier, the soldiers were not to be paid for and they were never to take personal wars, unlike what was happening in near east of their day. Thirdly or fourthly Kings and the elders and the high priests could not authorize a war. Only a prophet could. And we're going to have to explore that. Only a prophet could.

And whenever they had victory, they said God did it. 2Nd Chronicles 20. So therefore in Israel's battles, which was of that day, one of the things that God used it to teach, even though like we said it was an act aspect of the fallen world was to show how weak can overcome the strong. And that sets the template for what happened on the cross. Like I said, you look through and look back at what God didn't do to end at what God eventually did. So therefore we have the template, a weak army defeating a trained one that brings to mind David and Goliath. Somewhere in the background. So Paul will say it's not flesh and blood, but it is the power of God.

And so as we read the Old Testament stories, we read how Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, we must read the sins. Israel sins. God's triumph through Israel's sins. And that's the story of the gospel. So were the wars justified in their world? Yes. Were they means of God using weakness to show his strength? Yes. Was it God speaking against sin? Yes. Any ethnic group? No. Wanting life for life? No. That was what he could use. Just like you are what he can use. You as it were, an imperfect person. Men will have stories about you different from what God will say, but you are still what he has available to you. And that is the story of Israel. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/