Today you can with you Today you can teach from this text. Am I right? You can all the take care of the poor did it among you in the Epistles. This is it they didn't get it from the legislation of their countries. Who cares? There's nothing in if you are poor. They will fight for your goods, send you away. Nobody cares, nobody looks at you. But there's a love law Amen that guides the way believers conduct themselves. And in verse 14 and 15, look at one key thing. 14 Says okay, look at 12. I want you to read it very well. It's a very key text. I want us to know if thy brother, an Hebrew man or an Hebrew woman be sold unto thee. That is sold unto the. What does it mean? Owing you and has to.

That means you have the option that. Okay. If you are not going to okay. This guy has now rendered himself to serve you for debt and serve six years. In the seventh year shall let him go free and from you. And when you send him out free from thee, thou shalt not let him go empty. See that you furnish him liberally out of your flock, out of your floor, out of thy winepress wherewith the Lord thy God has made thee. That means you will take care of the person. That's freedom, right? Look at 15. Thou shalt remember. This is the key part. Now that you were a bond man in the land of Egypt and the Lord thy God redeemed thee therewith. I command you to do this. So who are we reflecting the doing this the Father you must remember.

So at the end, at the core of these instructions will be the redemptive act of God is what prompts the conduct of the people. The redemptive act of God. As we are going to see, unlike the Hittite laws of their day, the issue of treating the poor and the servants was not an addendum. It was a major part of the laws. Is in Exodus 21, it's in Leviticus, is in Numbers, Deuteronomy, you know, like even today's life, just take care of the poor. Just create one small agency somewhere and say. And you guys just. Just write something for them. They make noise and give them money during elections. Exodus 21 shows you rights of servants. You can. We'll check a few of them. In the world of Israel here, the Near Eastern culture, the king was like the image of God on earth.

He was basically someone you cannot question. However, this didn't happen in Israel. Unlike Scripture, where he says, well, Everybody's equal. Genesis 1:26, 27. In Job 31, verse 13 to 15, The equality of the servant and the master was spelled out. If I did despise the cause of my manservant of my maidservant when they contended with me, what then shall I do when God shall rise up? And when he visited, what shall I answer him? Did not he that made me in the womb make him? And did not one fashion us in the womb? So you have equality is in the Scriptures. Whereas, unlike their counterparts, their own colleagues in that world. All right in that world, servants in Israel had human rights, fundamental ones, and they are legal.

It may not be as beautiful and flowery as today, but in their world it was like an escape from the harsh laws of other places. The Angkor Bible dictionary says that what we have in the Bible, I'm going to quote this appeals in world literature to treat slaves as human beings for their own sakes and not just in the interest of their masters. By comparison, the idea of a slave is exclusively the object of rights. And as a person outside regular society was apparently alien to the laws of the other countries around. That is, this is totally different from the other world where slaves then are forcibly taken, tattooed for identification. Look at Exodus 21, verse 5. If the Master, if the servant shall say, I love my master, my wife and my children, I will not go out free.

Then his master shall bring him into the Judges. He shall also bring him to the door or to the door post. And his mother shall. Shall bore his hair through with an awl, and he shall serve him forever. That is, he has rendered himself to serve. But in the near instant, they just take you from anywhere, take him from the pump and then capture. So therefore, still reading the Angkor Bible dictionary, the Hebrew law was raising mouth towards the slaves and recognized them as human beings subject to defense and intolerable acts, although not to the same level as free persons. So you will see that yes, they are not free, but equally they are not the humanized. And they are very different from the slaves or say the servants in their own world.

Like I said, the fairest thing to do is to look at their own world and contrast what we have. Why was Israel's law different? Because God just rescued them from a slave master. So they are meant to always remember that. That shows us something. Please watch what I'm about to say. You know, they were all slaves in Egypt, okay? And they were made very horrible for them, very bad. The only guy who was a Jew or an Israelite that was rich was Moses. And when he tried to help them, look at their mentality. Who made you a judge over us? We saw that we killed somebody the other day. And the guy felt, I don't blame them. You can kill somebody like that, who knows what he will do with us. I'm trying to settle.

As soon as heard that I said this is going to be on Facebook, will start tweeting this. You run away for 40 years, it all came back. And you know, at that point there was a whole lot of they were already they had moved from fellow citizens. It's just like suddenly a government to just say, well, those of you were born in America or in Nigeria, you're no longer citizens. Your parents, your great grandparents have to eh. And they take your passport, give you, well, a green passport, give you a yellow one. I say you can't have the right of. I mean that's what it did to them. And so by the time they were living in the Exodus, obviously some were wealthy, some were not.

So there was nothing, you know, general, when it comes to wealth came to wealth, they were just another society, you know, just another society. So the entire nation of Israel was not wealthy. Hope that's clear. It's even almost clear that a good number were poor. Just like the days of Jesus. It is said that statistically 90% were poor. 90%, If I don't go too far, his own parents were poor. So the truth of the matter is that when we compare it, which we are going to put down in the written form, I can't do this here except I have something to show when we do a comparison, we're going to do like a table. And you will see how Moses addressed this and how the laws of their days are there. And you say, wow, what a stark difference, you know.

So here she, as it were, ameliorated those laws with the law of love, that the love of God for the poor justice should inspire us not to carry things out this way, you know, and did his best. Now for example, In those days, at some point, you know, initially if you kill, they killed. But in the eastern laws of the Near Eastern laws of these days, if it's a slave that kills, they still retain the death sentence for the slave. Whereas other people, they ask you to pay compensation. But if you are a slave, you must not kill. You know, if that's. Even when they changed their laws, it didn't affect the slaves, the free persons. If you kill someone, they will just mutilate your body briefly and pay fine. But a slave is death.

So it's therefore critical to know that the laws of service within Israel was in comparison to their world. Why are we taking this route? Because a lot of those who Attack Scripture. Apart from those who have misused it, always go to the slave laws. And they tell you the Bible is the genesis of slavery in the world. This is not just dishonest, it is wicked. Because Israel was a slave, Not a slave in Israel, they were slaves in Egypt. So that already drives away that kind of thinking. In exodus 21, Now dealing with where a slave experiences injury. If a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his mate, that he perished, he shall let him go free for the eye sake.

If his might is man servant's tooth or his maid servant's tooth, he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake. That is, you got so angry. Boa. The eye went off. Boa. You saw the tooth on the roof. He says, that is a reason why. If it's owing you one million, that's the end. There was nothing like this in other laws around them. There's more which we are going to look at later. If the. For example, if there is the death of the servant. Moses clearly states verse 20, that he will be sorely punished. The Hebrew means he will die. He will die. Meanwhile, in the Aburabi code, the evil permitted the master to cut off the hair of his obedient servants. You know the way it is like this, they will use hand we cut last pump that you are not listening.

So the symbol of the punishment is to cut off the air. Now this is important. Want to hear this? Where a slave gets injured, it is the masters that are compensated financially for the injuries to their slaves. Yet Moses says, no, you will be accountable for injuries to your slave. So again, unlike the Near Eastern laws, where a master kills or occasions the death of a servant, it is treated as murder. That already shows you that they were not seen as property. These additions, alterations are major radical changes from their own world. Well, some will say, well, why is taking out the eye or injury a basis for freeing, you know, servants? You know, but the truth is that in other walls, okay, the conditions were more stringent.

Well, as we said earlier, while Israel war, you are bound to release your servants every seven years. Unless they wanted to stay. We have a case like that. First Chronicles 2, verse 34 to 35. Now, Shinan had no sons, but daughters. And Shina had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jireh. And Shazan gave his daughter to Jireh, a servant to wife and bore him attire. Of course, I mean, a rich boss, you know, that's like you stepped up, you know, in society. So most times these Servants are young people given up by their parents who are very poor to a more prosperous family. Most of the time it is to take care of their feeding, their clothing. Like, you know, I think they do it. You still do it now, where somebody is taken from the village, brought to the city.

Just we are giving it over to you. Just take care. And that's because of the inability of the parents to financially take care of the child. So, you know, it's a system in place once again to help poverty or to us, I mean to. To eradicate poverty. Of course, it doesn't go without the character of whoever the boss is, wherever it is. It's also a stringent law that you cannot kidnap somebody to serve you. Exodus 21 Again, verse 16. You can't forcefully take anyone. Either steals a man and sells him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall be put to death. You know, you say, see, the Bible says put to death. Do you know kidnapping laws today is the same thing? People are applauding it.

If you have had to take a phone call and you go and look for 10 million, I get it. And there's the way that money appears and then they now kill the person. But there was one guy they had collected, I'm not sure how many millions, maybe 20 million or 30 million. They still butchered the guy, put him in a sack and dumped him somewhere. You here born of God. If they tell you that those people, when they arrested them, they shot them, you will say, why? Anywhere you say that, why? People will look at you and say, arrest this guy. You know, we have to realize that we're in a fallen world and everything has to be in its context of the kind of world that we live in. So put to death to Revelation 24:7.

If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of Israel and makes merchandise of them, what does that remind you of? Joseph? Can you see? Because this is Joseph and sells him. And that thief shall die. Thou shalt put evil away from among you. That is why in First Timothy 1:10, Paul says, Mensteelers, what's men? Stealers, kidnappers. So lesser than our mind that when we say slave, servant in scripture, is it clear to us it's not people that came to your hometown, took your great grandparents and shipped them to America to work in sugarcane. But you know the interesting part? The proponents of slavery in America is scripture that they were quoting, Unfortunately. So kidnapping is not tolerated. Injuring to injure your servant or your employee, a debt employee is Also not accepted. What about runaway servants? What do we.