I don't have a problem with that. But the moment a theology abuses the language of the content of a material, it becomes heretic. So the Calvinists or the Reformed theologians, grateful for whatever they must have done yet have done a lot of harm to Bible theology. Let me show you. Let me read to you. And you see these people are responsible for translations. Let me read to you some things, some quotes of well known Calvinists. Listen carefully. God never takes the spectator posture when he allows things, including sin and evil without cursing them. He specifically wills them in such a way as to assure they will happen without actually cursing them. I mean, if this kind of fellow will write books or translate scriptures, imagine what he will say. So a text, for example, like what we read once we read yesterday.

A Calvinist will take it literally in today's language. Brothers and sisters, that is ersy because you have not just done your homework. Well, you know, if you say that God doesn't. They are even saying that even we are saying not that we are saying the Bible is clear. That is not that God permits it. No, it is a permissive tense in the use of words. We are basically saying here by script authority that it is the use of language. Now the Calvinist is saying no, what God permits ebs what God panda is not is permit it. He is the one that still makes sure it comes to pass. That's ridiculous. Look at Zorami 32, 1620 they provoked him to jealousy with their strange gods. I think we have explained the word jealousy with abominations provoked they him to anger.

We understand what the anger is to inactivity. They sacrificed unto their devils, not to Gods whom they knew not to new gods that came up newly whom your fathers feared not of the rock that begat thee. Thou art unmindful and has forgotten God that formed thee and when the Lord saw it, he abhorred them because of the provoking of his sons and of his daughters. And he said, I will hide my face from them. I will see what their end shall be. For they are a forward generation children in whom is no faith. How would you say that God does not just look? That's exactly what he's doing here. He's just going to look. His looking is why he is part of it, because he's doing nothing. What? It simply means that when God is doing nothing, he doesn't restrain the actors.

So the sense by which God permits is that he is not a part of it at all. Oh, is it that he didn't prevent it? He didn't prevent it because he could not. If God could prevent everything, If God could prevent everything, then God will prevent sin. Let me read another recent Calvinist for you. I'll mention his name, Alcy Sproul. How Sisprous said this. We'll give all the necessary quotes later. What God permits, He decrees to permit. In other words, God's permission is willing and even determining permission. It merely reflects and enacts God's eternal decrees. Thus even sin lies both within God's decretive will and God's permissive will. The latter does not in any way determine the former, or else God will not be sovereign. What God permits, He decreed to permit, including sin.

So the Calvinist theory says that evil sin, God decreed it to happen. And that is by twisting, like we said earlier, the narratives of the Old Testament. Now there have been people who had criticized this horrendous submission. One said this. Now look at another statement. The words permit and suffer are used, like the doctor's creed, synonymous with a decree. Permission is a virtual part of decree. So when he talks about permitting the fall and suffering, the commission of all the sins in the world, it is the same in signification as to say the fall and the sins of the world were decreed by God. Hence from eternity, God decreed the commission of all the sins of the world from eternity. That is because his permissive will is his true and real will.

And again, says the doctor, he might have hindered the fall, he might have stopped the fall, but he did not. He would not. The reason was he decreed the fall. So when he makes uses of words like permit and suffer, it is to truss up together what he conveniently wanted to do. How can you say that? And like I said, if these people were a key part of certain translations, that is what you are going to read. We will see the import later, maybe later in the week. Because false doctrine is not as easy as we think. No, till today, there is nothing in the world that is happening in the whole world that does not have to do with people's view of God. We are going to see it. Nothing. Nothing.

So the Calvinist view about God's sovereignty, wherever they got it from, is not just misleading. It is totally unacceptable. Eventually what the Calvinist has created is a monster. Now, I don't have a problem with God doing something and saying that is who he is. But where he doesn't say it and where he doesn't do is totally a heresy. I'm not in any way trying to caricature God in my thinking. I'm simply saying let the Scriptures mean what it means. If I'm not going to take language today literally, not in any way, by passing their idioms, nuances and culture, why must I treat the Scriptures differently, knowing fully well that the Bible is not in heavenly language? Because there's nothing like that. It's in a human language which you'll have taken the patience and the pain to find out.

The Bible language of permission, Hebrew language of permission is so clear that if a simple study, the way we studied verbs and adjectives in school, will have helped it. So in earlier centuries there were people who wrote against this. A man by the name of Erwin Lutzer said this Calvinist pointedly admit that God ordains evil. This is consistent with both the Bible and logic in ordinary discussions about human events. We can say that God permitted evil as long as we understand that hereby willed that the evil happened. Calvinists agree with the sincere confession of faith that says God ordains all that ever comes to pass. In a word, what God permits, He ordains. So, okay, so this is a Calvinist writer. What God permits, he ordains. What they are saying is there's actually nothing that God is not behind.

Nothing that God is not behind. In the world today. There is nothing. In other words, they are saying that he made Adam sin, then he accused him of sin, that he made a man disobey, he accused him of disobedience. Now that is morally wrong because you cannot be the cause and be the effect and then blame the object of the cause and effect is morally wrong. However, what they have done is to basically ignore simple scriptural truths. However, look at this. Throughout Scriptures you will find terms in the Hebrew and Greek that deal with allowing I gave you over. Paul must have meant this in Romans 1 in discussing the subject of sin. See how Paul described it Romans 1:21 because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God.

Now we saw the kind of ministry that Moses Undertook in Exodus 18 and also Abraham. Because they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were thankful, but became vain, their imaginations and their foolish heart was darkened, he says, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, changed the glory of the incorruptible God. Romans 1:23 into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds and four footed beasts and creeping things. Look at 24. Can we read out 24 together? Romans 1. Wherefore now, so this is describing Israel that we just read. Let's take 24 together. Wherefore God also gave them up. Can you see? He gave them up to what? Uncleanness. Let's go on. Through the loss of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies between themselves.

25 Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed forever. Amen. 26 For this cause God gave them up, can you see? Consistently unto vile affections. For even their women did change their natural use into that which is against nature. 27 And likewise also the men living the natural use of the woman born in their lust, one toward another. Men with men working that which is unseemly, and received in themselves the recompense of their error which was meet. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, look at it again. God gave them over to a reprobate mind. And to do those things which are not convenient. Can you see it? So did you see what the New Testament writer has done?

He has simply taken the Hebrew language into his own world to give over, mean to. To watch. So the wrath of God is God grieving. The wrath of God is God grieving. It's practically God crying. It therefore becomes dishonest if in any light we ignore this clear use of language and go after our own nuances. It's obvious that many theologians of that day grew up in the Roman Empire, the fall of it, and had been used to certain attributes of either monarchy, kingdoms or military rule, as we have it today. And thus in their mind control has to be coercion, absolutism, in the control of things. Because like we said, every man's theology, many times he's influenced by his world. God in the Old Testament departed, He drew back, he watched things happen, he had people depart from him.

He was absolutely not in control of what People did in the sense of oh, he controls their appetites and the things that he did not like. That is not true. So we can carefully see that God allows what you allow. God is received when you believe is rejected when you doubt. The subjects of obey, heed, believe. Trust in the Old Testament negates the feeling of an absolute control by God. If he has absolute control, then the use of trust and obey will not occur. Trust and obey shows that he didn't have absolute control. If he was ordaining and making things come to pass, then there will be no disobeyed or you departed from me. Psalm 81. Psalm81. I'm going to read verse 10 to 14. I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt.

Open thy mouth wide and I'll feed it. But my people will not hearken to my voice. Israel will none of me. So I gave them up unto their own heart laws, and they walked in their own counsels. Oh, that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways. I should soon have subdued their enemies and turned my hand against their adversaries. Verse 15 the Athens of the Lord should have submitted themselves unto him, but their time will have endured forever. That is the summary. So which means that hundreds of years after this is how a teacher of Scripture explained it. Because you and I know that languages evolve over time. Maybe in the earlier days the expressions did not have that differentials, but by the time David is writing here or asap, sorry, he makes a clear distinction.

We therefore will say that Israel rejected God's grace and protection. God in his wrath is when he has no choice. God in his wrath is when he is literally helpless. In the Epistles we have a Satan who goes around 1 Peter 5:8 seeking whom he may devour. Therefore we can't say. If we say God, we are left with two propositions. If God is that in control, that means there is no devil. Or if God is that in control, but God and the devil work together. I'm going to show you ancient material that gives such a suggestion. Look at 2nd Chronicles 15. And verse, The Spirit of God came upon Azariah, the son of Obed, and he went out to meet Asa and said unto him, hear ye me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin.

The Lord is with you while you be with him and if you seek him, you will be found of you if you forsake him, he will forsake you. That simple. 2Nd Chronicles 24:20 and this is the aspect of the Grace message that people have to be very careful. Where? Don't worry. God so loves you that even if you don't want him, there's nothing you can do about it. No, no. That will lead to another conclusion, that the end point is unimaginable. 2Nd Chronicles 24:20. And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah, the son of Jehudah, the priest, which stood above the people and said unto them, thus saith the Lord. Why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord that you cannot prosper because you have forsaken the Lord. He has also forsaken you. Second Chronicles. 36, Verse 14.