In the ministry of Jesus. I will leave the controversial issues. There are a few controversial issues that we'll have to solve by grammar. Another question is what about Exodus 20:17? Just take that one more then close to me. Exodus 20:17. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his manservants, nor his maidservants, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor anything that is their neighbors. Almost presupposing that this is your neighbor's property. Well, this will look very odd that what he's saying here is that he is equating the woman with a property because verse 12 says honor thy father and mother. So he couldn't have been using honor for a property. Construction may appear like, oh, is David the woman like a property?

No, he couldn't have done that because he gave equal honor to male and female, even over the children. We have read that earlier in Near Eastern culture, the murabi code, the ITAJ laws, 75 to 80% of their laws. I think I've even. Yeah, I'm right, yeah. Presented more of a woman being under the control of her son. So Moses corrected that by saying, no, you will honor your father and your mother. So again you see something being corrected. Leviticus 19:3, You shall fear every man is brought mother his father and keep my Sabbath. So he equals the male and the female. So sometimes it's just looking for proof text. If you read it all, you'll be able to make a distinction why is this way? But you will not see a prevalent instruction to despise women.

Another question is why were there no women priests? Well, I don't think that's a big issue. The priests were to be taken from a particular tribe. It wasn't open ended for anybody to be priests. It's also believed, and we'll take this historically, that one of the things Moses was correcting about the woman was that in Canaan and many of the Near Eastern religious cults, the women were often used as objects of sin and idolatry. So Moses deliberately excluded women to correct that kind of theology, as it were. And that is really understandable because in no way was he anti woman ministry. There was Miriam, like we have said, you know, in his ministry, Miriam occupied a major leadership position. Also in Exodus 19:5,6, God expressly says nation of a kingdom of priests. And that included the women.

So where you find women being barred at some point in the temple, it was the exact opposite of how it was there in their eastern religion. That is basically the women's. When women, when they had their menstrual cycle period, you know, they were used to. Was used as a spiritual cleansing. You know, a couple of nonsense that probably will mention later. So again, trying to correct gives certain restrictions. And it's not like a theology of Barry women at all. There were a lot of prostitutes, male and female in Canaan and they were cultic as well. We'll see some of those texts later. Does this in any way justify it? No, but in comparison to their own world, it was a far, far better legislation to yet have women, you know, to the extent that Moses did.

So what we're saying basically here is that we cannot totally separate their world from the way women were referred to. There was a world, there was a world. And like I said before, now that when you begin to examine even today in our world, you must therefore appreciate what Moses had to face in a fallen world, a very harsh environment where I mean, we've mentioned the issue of slaves, the issue of war, the issue of their civil laws, criminal laws. They can imagine how women are so treated. But the honest truth is the fact that the prophecy of the Messiah was that he will be born by a woman in his own says a lot. It says a lot. It says a lot in the prophetic scriptures.

And if you look at the way Zion, the prophecies and images of Zion is, a woman travails. And Jesus also makes mention of that. So it will be very hard and harsh to pick out those isolated areas and think there was a discrimination in scripture against women. Yes, the language might appear so. Yes, we might have to look at the culture of their day here and there. But when you take theology of the Bible altogether, you will never come to that conclusion. You seek contrast, definitely. You seek semi contradictions. But it's not left for you as an honest Bible teacher to be able to walk through it and solve it. So we'll take it from here.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/