Let us pray. Dear Father, in the name of your Son Jesus, thank you for another opportunity and privilege to fellowship and gather together. We thank you for the light that you have brought our part so far in our studies in this particular subject. As we review the background of the laws, commandments and the experience of the Old Testament, we ask this evening that you further grant to our hearts insight and wisdom. Understanding is ours as we study together and you bring to our ways the precise insight that's only found in your son, Jesus. Let there be no error either what is said or what is understood, that together as a church with behold Jesus Christ, your Son, as he sees us in him, he is glorified, we are edified. Amen. Amen. Let's have a seat. First Corinthians 15.

Once again, First Corinthians 15 and verse 1. Like I said, this is a prerequisite teaching before we go to Joshua, the Book of Joshua and the Book of Judges. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the Gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received. And it says wherein you stand, by which also you are saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried and rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, and he was seen of Caphar and of the 12. And then we highlighted verse 11. Therefore, whether it. Therefore whether it be for they. Or so we preach. And so you believed.

Verse 12. Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection from the dead? Verse 14. If Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain? And your faith is also vain. Maybe we should add 17. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain and you are yet in your sins. Because the background of this word gospel wagelion will remain in the book of Isaiah, where Isaiah speaks about the return of a king, the king Yahweh himself, where he reigns. And when you get home or leave the service and able to see something in virtually all the Old Testament books, I'm saying from Exodus through to Malachi, there's something you are going to see that is a. Like a thread throughout. And that is the Exodus story.

Everybody has the Exodus story, which means that we can say that the background of all doctrine is the Exodus story. And then the background of the Exodus story will remain the book of Genesis, and the background of the book of Genesis will be the first and second chapters. So Isaiah 52:7 how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that brings good tidings and published peace, and brings good tidings of good, that publish salvation, that saith unto Zion, thy God reigneth. So once again he highlights. Now Paul mentions this in Romans 1:15. But the crucial thing there is to see that there is the king who reigns. So a kingdom is in view.

And then don't forget the opening statement that I made here now, as to see that there is the Exodus in the background, where maybe NAOM152 the mountains quake at him and the hills melt and the earth is born at his presence here the world and all the world that dwell therein. And then you have abacuch 2 the whole earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And so this is the intent of the concept of the word huajileon, the news of exile. So the exile, therefore let's take a very short, fast trip. The exile will be, why is there a reference to Egypt all the time? That means there's bondage in the background. So the exile factor would be, what's the exile Today? Paul will say, you are yet in your sins.

That is, if God has not come in the Lord Jesus Christ, if he's not reigning now, that means you are yet in your sins. First Corinthians 15:17. That means our preaching is vain. 1 Corinthians 15:14. According to the Scriptures, by the time we read everything and we said something that is common to the whole Scripture is the Exodus story. And the Exodus story you would discover also was a promise in Genesis. You see that shortly. So the Exodus story is a promise in Genesis. A fact in Exodus is seen as a fulfilled fact. By the time you read Numbers, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and then, yeah, and then you read Joshua, Judges and get to the Book of Psalms and all of that. Then you read all the prophets and then the Exodus story is still in the background of their prophecy.

There's no more Egypt, but Egypt is mentioned, Israel is mentioned, Jacob is mentioned, Moses, and then the deliverance is mentioned, which means that it becomes, as you can put it safely at this point, a prototype. All the kinds of exile you will see. And Paul says the exile is sin. And if Christ has not returned, if God does not reign now, then you are still in exile. You are in Egypt or Babylon, as the case may be. So therefore exile remains a fundamental background of Old Testament scriptures. I did Mention to you the other day that the concept of mentioning, saying Old Testament and New Testament is a semantics. At the end of the day you ask yourself which one is Old Testament, which is the New Testament? It's a function of semantics.

So we now began to look at, you see, according to the Scriptures. And then it means that we have a duty to read all the experiences, all the stories. And the Exodus story becomes critical. And within the Exodus story we have Leviticus, Deuteronomy, Numbers, Deuteronomy, we have wars and we even have instructions as touching wars. And I read the Joshua George's account, which is like the fallout of it. And then they call it the effect of if that is the case, then that means that the Exodus story, yes, and then the wars and the stories of wars must equally be read according to the Scriptures, catheters, graphers, in the light of the death of Christ and then the glory that follows according to Peter. So we said that a major aspect of the Old Testament stories is the issue of war.

And then you wonder, okay, if war is in the background of all. Because if you are in the first century church or you are in the book of Acts church, the background of what you are going to be reading will be the Old Testament. Which means that the teachers of their day, the dusk close of their day, the Peters, the Paul, the Thomases, the Timothy's will be teaching from the wars. We said that. And we also said, of course, when you read second Timothy 3, 15 from a child, you have known the Holy Scriptures which are able to make the wise salvation through faith that is in Christ Jesus. And that Holy Scriptures also has holy wars. And it says all scripture is given by inspiration of God.

Verse 16 is poptive for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God will be three furnished prepared unto every good work, and then all of that. And in Luke 24:25 where he says, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin that Moses and all the prophets, he expounds them in other scriptures, the things concerning himself. Which means a background of all that Jesus taught from the Old Testament will be the wars. You can't keep the walls. The walls are an integral part of the Old Testament story. So we have examined a few things and we said reading Peter's account, Paul's account, John's account, there seemed to be like not too much information or direct reference.

That's the Right word about the wars. Now, may I add this, and critically so, because I said the other day that there are three levels of understanding when you read the Old Testament, particularly the wars. The first, he said, is to understand the grammar. If you don't get the grammar, that is, you miss out the grammar. That's why went into all the utterly destroyed and men and women and children, we skip the grammar aspect. Then the second thing I said, we look at the context. Was that it? Huh? The context of it, how it's explained, what is said, which we look at a lot of background information which we try to explore in the light of their day, they will say, look at the application today. Somehow we only ended up with the applications in Paul's epistles.

By the time you look at 2nd Corinthians 10:3, though we walk in the flesh, we don't walk after the flesh. And when he's teaching that, he's mentioning Judges, he's teaching from Joshua, says the weapons of our warfare are not canal. So when you say, though we walk in the flesh, you don't walk after the flesh, you know that he's referring to those wars of the Old Testament. So he is not in any way putting a disclaimer on them. Rather he is a explaining them. Weapons of our warfare are not canal almighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds. It says, the casting down of every imagination and every item that exhausts every God, bringing every thought to the captivity to the obedience of Jesus Christ. And then you see, fight the good fight of faith. First Timothy 6 and 12.

I fought the good fight. Second Timothy 4, 7. He that warreth entangleth not himself with the affairs. There's a lot of warfare explanation in Paul's writings, which means that he had taken time to explain the wars properly. We have that. Then we said, therefore he uses what you can call the cryptic format, which is I use an experience and summarize it in his statement, okay, something has happened, maybe over six months or six days. I summarize it in a singular statement. It's cryptic in form. I've just reduced it into a cryptic explanation. Paul has done that by talking about, for example, when you say those that are in the flesh cannot please God, then he now says that, brethren, you were not debtors. Look at the word debtors again. To live after the flesh. If you live after the version, you die.

But if you through the spirit, mortify, crucified the deeds of the body, you live. Talks about killing, put him to death. If you Say, put him to death. Then let me give you one typical instance. When he uses the cross, I have been crucified with Christ. Galatians 2:20. That's cryptic explanation by saying that statement I've been crucified with Christ, already has in it the scenarios of the four Gospels, because that's where you find that fact. Nevertheless, I live. Christ lives in me the life I live now. Galatians 2:20. I live by the faith of the Son of God. Then he now says in Galatians 5, verse 24, those that Christ have crucified the flesh, the lost and the affections thereof, we live in the Spirit. Let's walk out of it. Let us walk in the spirit. Then Galatians 6, that should be 14.

Is it 14 now that says I'm crucified to the world and Christ to me. And then you see that I use the word crucified a lot like Galatians 3:1 where he says that O ye Galatians, O foolish Galatians, who have bewitched you that you not obey the truth before whose eyes Jesus Christ was evidently set for and crucified amongst you. So he used the word crucified. Now you will see the story in the four Gospels. Then in the story you will find the soldiers, you find the nails, you find the cross. Then you, the believer, you are crucified with Christ. But we can't find the cross, which means that's a cryptic explanation. He has used a true life story to explain his spiritual implication. So therefore you won't understand that till you look at the cross first in real time.

Then that interpretation is that the flesh is crucified now you are alive in the resurrection, it is by the Spirit. So the same way the walls of the Old Testament will be so viewed, is God endorsing the cross or what Pilate has done, or the chief priest? That's for another day. Then you begin to look at it in the light of how it is explained. So we said that the writer of Hebrews was the one who gave us a very direct approach. He doesn't use a cryptic explanation. He doesn't use any images. He doesn't use any kind of, as some call it, typologies. He doesn't try to use echoes. He just goes direct. And we examined it. Hebrews chapter 11.