And what happened in the exile. Pay attention somewhere. Look at the entire book of Genesis. There is always a land to enter from the Garden of Eden, where figuratively they were chased out. We can say categorically they were never there. Then you have the land. To the land that I'll take you to the land. Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. So by saying I'm taking you to a land, that means the context of exile is critical in the way we study. To a land, the word eret, erect, people. And all of that shows you that these are figurative explanations of what God has given as a promise. So therefore, John, by saying. Let me quickly go back to that. By saying the Logos was God, has read several texts of the Old Testament together. That is, by what we have said earlier systematic theology.

So that means the Exodus scenario was equally present in Genesis. Let mention a few things. If you read Genesis 3:15, the seed of the woman, and your first mention of seed is a seed in itself. Genesis 1:11, Bringing forth fruit after its kind. The seed. The seed. The seed showed you, therefore, that the seed is meant to both be literal or figurative. Looking at the context to a land I will give you to your seed. So Moses will employ literary skills, literal tools in documenting the Torah and in literature. It's incumbent on me to look at what is present in my world, where I'm writing history or someone's biography. I must look at things present in my world to make such submissions. This is what he has done in the writings of Genesis 2. To journey, therefore sends a pattern throughout the Scriptures.

The exile position, the promise given choices, life and death, the place of the heart and all of that. So coming to the Epistles, we have the word law, which some of us, myself inclusive, before now used carelessly. You have three different expressions. The clearest you can see is the word of God. And that looks. That's straightforward. But when you use the word law, nomos in the Greek is used for a principle, a rule, a statute, or a written code. You have the word graphic. Scriptures. You have the word grammar, also scriptures. So it's left for us to find out. Nomos also requires refers to what is written. Look at Galatians 4, Verse 21. Tell me, you that desire to be under the law. Do you not hear the law? Then he says, Abraham had two sons. That's Genesis. Abraham had two sons.

The one by the born maid, the other by a free woman. It reads that all through the Book of Isaiah, all through to the Book of Isaiah. Pardon me. And you have Luke 24:44. These are the words that I said to you, written in the law of Moses, in the prophets and the Psalms. John 1:45, John 1:45, the law. Acts 28, 22 and 23. Paul preaching from the law and the prophets. So, which means that just like the writings had Cain and Abel, Isaac, Ishmael, Jacob and Esau, you will find within the law, or the right is the Sefer, the law of faith, the law of works, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ, the law of sin and death. So the law of the Spirit of life is in Genesis 2 and 3.

The law of sin and death is in Genesis 2 and 3. Same thing as Jeremiah, chapter 30. When you hear fulfilling the law. Fulfilling the law, love fulfills the law. Romans 13:10, Galatians 5, 14 and 15. Let's imagine that what you are saying is that love fulfills the ceremonies. So we can say safely that the ceremonies, the reason for the ceremonies and the use of symbolisms will be termed the law of sin and death. Would that be correct? The ceremonies. But would we say, thou shalt not kill? Is that the law of sin and death? No. Thou shalt not steal. No, no. So these are themes that require a bit more work than just mentioning. I would approach them in Romans chapter three. I'm being tempted not to go back to the book of Romans 40. I think there's no choice.

I have to keep referring to it. Romans 3:29. Is he the God of the Jews only? Is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also. See this one God who shall justify the circumcision by faith and utterance through faith. Do we there make void the law through faith? God forbid. We establish the law. We establish the law. So therefore we must separate quickly the ceremonies, the rituals from the Torah, from the Daba, We must. So when you say what the law could not do in that it was weak. Romans 8:3. Can we say through the ceremonies, through the flesh, through sense knowledge, God sending his own likeness, his own Son, the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteous requirements of the law might be fulfilled in us.

So that means that Romans 8 is to distinguish the law of sin and death, which is found in the ceremonies and all of that with the law of the Spirit of life in Christ. So what the ceremonies could not achieve, the Spirit of God has achieved in us. Let me show you understand that? Do you get that? What the ceremonies could not achieve. Because the ceremonies therefore God helping us. This weekend we do that. Ceremonies therefore will be. Don't forget we said they are borrowed rituals. Borrowed. And we can also put that into the ceremonial laws. The justice system. Come on. The commercial system, the system of marriage. What the law could not do. So the weakness of the law of Moses.

Now don't forget the law of Moses now will be Moses interpretation of the Torah through the eyes of the tradition of his day. What the law could not do. So imagine you call something the law of sin and death and the law of the Spirit of life in the same text. What the law could not do. So we have to be careful of the use of the word law. What the law could not do. What the ceremonies are not just the ceremonies. Don't forget even the justice system. Come on. Even the commercial. What system? Even the marriage system. What the law could not do. The law of the Spirit of life. So Moses wrote on stones what God has written in our hearts. Moses gave in edicts.

You know, we looked at the Umurabi code, how it was incremental stages to doing the right thing, using their own world, the systems of laws in their own world. Like we said, law. As a schoolmaster, you know what the law could not do, that is those laws Moses tried to interpret God's intent through. They couldn't achieve what God had to achieve. It is only done by the Spirit. So which means that in the study of Deuteronomy 612 or 13 laws, it is therefore on us to say, why did he give this law? We must find it in the Torah of God. Why? Whilst this cannot achieve what God wants to achieve, the question is, we must find out what did God want to achieve by the Spirit that Moses gave this law.

For what did God seek to achieve by his Spirit that Moses gave this instruction for? So you can see that the interpretation of the law of sin and death from the law of faith will take rigorous study. So within the law of sin and death. Or that instruction will find the law of faith, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus. What the law could not do. So therefore Abraham believed in God. Genesis 15:6. Accountative of righteousness is the intent of the laws of Moses. Abraham believed in God. You know, we have said that the righteousness of Abraham is explained in three ways. We said, number one is faith in God, which is the background. And then we said Abraham's lifestyle of righteousness and Abraham's giving of Isaac. Within the three is what Moses sought to achieve in 612 laws or 13.

So within the three things Abraham did, we'll find two things. One, faith towards God and love towards men. So it therefore let me run, then run forward and run backward. That means that theme of Bible interpretation will be faith and love, faith in God and the love of God. The theme of Bible interpretation will be around faith in God and the love of God. Let me, as it were, go back to Romans so that you get my point. Paul did not start in Deuteronomy 30 talking about sin and death. Because if he did, he just said, remember children of Israel, they will do this and do that and they will be okay. Yeah, but he went to Adam. Romans 5:12. So in other words, he found Adam in Israel. Adam's pattern. Romans 5:14. It says death reigned from Adam to Moses. Romans 5:13.

Even though sin was in the world, sin was not imputed. So do you get imputed now? Imputed is what Elogee to write down a charge against. Was there sin in the world? But it was not written. Who wrote it? That's why I said from Adam to Moses was Moses now wrote down what sin was. But let me ask you a question. Didn't the children of Israel know what sin was? They did. The holy said it was not written down. Nevertheless, death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not. Listen carefully now. That had not seen after the simitude of Adam's transgression. Which means that in Deuteronomy, what Moses was preaching to them as life and death, good and evil was Adam's transgression. So Adam's transgression is not a generational seed, It's a choice.

So if you can take Genesis 30 together and Genesis 2 and 3, you can understand what Paul was saying. Who is the figure? Figure will mean to post is the example of things to come. Use the word Melo of things to come. Which is when Moses in Revelation told and said, look guys, I set for you life and Death, he said, right in darkness. He was using Adam as an example of disobedience, that which is to come. So it now presents two kinds of Adam. It therefore means that by the time you get to Jeremy. 30. Sorry. Romans 8, it is still a Jerome experience that you are seeing. Romans 6. Paul talks about baptism, which is the Red Sea experience. Newness of life, bondage, freedom, servanthood, that is Egypt. Then the baptism, Red Sea. Then you have Romans 7, the law.

You find yourself in Sinai, where the law is given. Then, oh, Adam and Eve as well. Romans 8, the Exodus, and also what you can call the second law, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus, then the inheritance. So therefore, when Paul is talking righteousness in Paul's language is not just. You are a sinner, now you are pardoned. Righteousness involves entering into God's family. Righteousness in Paul's language. So before you get to Romans 5:17, you will see that before Paul got there, all he first did was to unify sinners. Justified me. So righteousness will be that God's action where he unifies those who believe. You can't talk righteousness without the family of God. You can't talk righteousness without God's promise. You can't.

So if you talk about God's promise to Abraham, and you see that Moses systematically write Abraham as the replacement of Adam. So you have all the nations of us, male and female, inherit the earth, dominate, replenish. So the concept of righteousness must thors be taught as God, putting things back to what it ought to be. And the reason why Paul will use that Greek word diacosune, because diachusune, dark here is justice. So it's like, okay, this fellow stole this man's car. What does justice do? It returns the car to the owner, Gaia kosuni. What therefore will be tzedekah in the Hebrew justice to do right. What is right is Genesis 1:26 28 to 29. So righteousness will be to do it right. So it will pay attention here. It will therefore be expansive. I'm just giving you a poor view into Saturday.

It gives you an expansive thinking to okay, the man is in the family, then the family replenishes the earth. That is, we begin to set things back how they ought to be. So it is by faith, yes, in the covenant, by faith, in the promise. But the promise is about a family. In the earth, the promise is about God and a people. That is why the two places where the sonnet of righteousness was exhaustively dealt with by Paul, Romans and Galatians. You will find something very common more in Romans and Galatians is that the Jews and Gentiles are one and the same. So a very vital part of the righteousness of God is the unity of faith, the unity of the Spirit, not you, not Gentile.

So therefore we can say righteousness is God's promised justice, the promise to set man right or mankind, the promise to put it right, the promise to make it right. So you can't know righteousness without finding out what went wrong. What is it curing if you use a deka or you use dark osuni? The question is, what are you curing? What are you putting right? So when Paul I'm taking you back and forth, but I guess you won't be lost. We can therefore call righteousness God's promised justice. God's promised putting things right. So well, righteousness means right standing. Yeah, that's just an element of means for me to stand before God without a fear of guilt or inferiority is just an element of it.