Perverted already in Egypt for idol worship. He will now use the creation story to write a salvation story. Let me try following what I'm saying here. So I must know the s. The language applied in every instance. What's the language? I must know it. Serpent Trees. Because if I'm going to relate history to you today with a mind to pass across a message, I will use figures of speech or things you can identify. That's why look at Genesis 1:3, the three chapters. You will see similar things in deuteronomy. Take Genesis 3 and 2. Abu Jeremy 30. I said before, it's the same thing. It's like I've told you what happened at the beginning. Yes, Moses. So I said before you, life and death I must read, throwing you to Genesis also vice versa. So without this emmynotic method, I'll think something else.

A man and a woman. Then he says ezar. Every time he uses eza. Afterwards, eza is used for God or somebody that delivers another person from the danger that cannot be a woman. But you know, today in our world, when you say help, meet Ms. Housekeep. Help meet. Help meet your wife is your help meat. We haven't found the word helper is deliverer. A deliverer proper for him. So that means marriage, which is what God said to Israel upon the Exodus. A husband is what he intends to use marriage to depict and explain. No better way shows us the language of the Old Testament. Like the Book of Job. Let's run there quickly. The Book of Job. The Book of Job. The authorship is disputed, but I firmly believe that it is Moses. Now look at the Book of Job.

The Book of Job is poetic. Let me say this. It is believed that the first book of the Old Testament. It has a prose, a prologue, an epilogue. It has poetic language, dialogues, monologues. Did you notice that heaven and earth is in Job one and two? I look at the. If Job is the first book. Okay, come on. Watch this because it's going to come out useful for shortly. If Job is the first book and Is that poetic? Heavily. Poetic heavily in images. And you have seen the same thing. Genesis 1, 2, 3. Then calm down. And one other thing that Job has done. The book of Job. Job shows us a Satan behind the work. The Hebrew word satana accuser. Job also will have three friends who had several conversations until Elihu.

Did you observe that the issue of Satan and God having a conversation never took place? It is poetry that what is happening to you is likened unto Satan asking God, take your hands off this guy and he will curse you to your face. And who did we see that accused God? Job. He was the one who repented so. And he admitted that he had been hearing with the earring of the eyes. Now it's time for him to have accurate knowledge. The last statement. Now do you know. Now pay attention somewhere. Now this is, I believe you are 10 years of scripture. Do you know that aside the imagery where Job didn't have a conversion with God at all, it was God and the devil, which is what Matthew and Luke did. In terms of Jesus showing you like Jesus and Satan are talking.

I say, I mean, if you see Satan already, that's not a temptation. I mean, Jesus is already anointed of God, so he now sees Satan. I say, that's not a temptation. So again, see a poetic language. That's why Matthew and Luke says God doesn't happen amongst men. Satan will come like angel of light, is a deceiver. A deceiver does not come full blown. So he will appear to Job in form of his friends. Hope you get that. Amongst men. That thing that I greatly feared has come upon me. So Job is an innocent man who equally lived in fear, ignorance and unbelief. Did you notice that when God was going to talk to him, Job 38 through to the last chapter, God didn't say anything whether I did it. I didn't do it.

He just said, where were you when I laid the foundation of the world? What is Moses saying? Go back to Genesis. You know who is who. Eliu said, as touching the Almighty, he will not afflict. The next statement go back to Genesis. Which means Job's problem was not reading from Genesis. So Job presents to us a scenario, job 37 23, with which we read the Scriptures. Job repented, prayed for his friends. Do you know the interesting thing? And you mustn't lose sight of this in the book of Job. Look at how the writing ends. Job 42, after he repented, which is faith, you know, and believed, then he prayed for his friends, Then he was restored oh, come on. Okay, good. Verse 11. What happened now look at this writing.

Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house. And they bemoaned him and called over all the evil that the Lord had brought upon him. How in the world will this still be said when we already have the facts? This is going to lead us to our next session. Already we have seen the imageries clear. You can see it. The asatana. The Satan is the accuser. The accuser. Now in Egyptian palace, or let's say Near Eastern palace. It is somebody who brings charges against you. Now look at what was said about The Almighty. Job 37:23. The Almighty. We cannot find him out. He is excellent in power, in judgment, and plenty of justice. He will not afflict men who therefore fear him.

He respects not any that are of a wise heart. Is that like Jesus? A wise heart? You are intelligent in your own eyes. And the next statement in Job 38, verse 1, out of the whirlwind. I mean, that's. That's like Genesis 1:3. Who is he that darkeneth Cancer by words without knowledge? Gallop your loins, come. Where were you when I laid the foundations of the earth? Genesis 1, 2, 3. And there we saw where death came from, where evil came from. So God said, I didn't do it on Job. Who told you? He answers in rhetoric. Look at job 38, 39. It was rhetoric. Rhetoric. Don't you see this many questions till chapter 40, 41 questions. Can you draw out rhetoric? Rhetoric, a lot of rhetorical statements. He said, I didn't do it. Who told you I am a good God?

He said, go to the beginning. At the beginning wasn't so what happened at the beginning? Yet the writer still says the evil that God did to him, a knot will have to crack together. So Job therefore gives us a ready interpretation of the Old Testament imageries. Just like Jesus and Satan. There was no encounter. It was amongst men. Same as Job. Same as Job. So we have a duty. Job, therefore will be our guide. Will be a guide being the earliest of the Old Testament writings, not the earliest of the events, but the writings. And arguably, presumably, assuredly so, the same author. We therefore have a duty to un these truths. See, we can't fail our generation by being lazy readers of Scripture. And I mean to say it again, we have treated the Bible badly. We have read our school books with diligence.

We have felt that they needed more diligence and we have read the words of life carelessly. You know, if it was your school books, who would question that contradiction? Who would just say, who knows? You want to find out? If it were your school books, would you boldly say with what he said here, let me think through it. Job 38, 39, 40, 41. God said nothing about doing it or not doing it. He only gave rhetoric. What is a rhetoric? You will have found out. How do you answer rhetoric when a statement is made? Go to the history. You are taking the extra step. But you know what we do? We just take the Bible. Where are you? When I form the earth, I can do what I please. Did you read your school books like that? Did you take it more seriously?

Did you spend more time with. Did you find out? Sometimes we get cross references of a singular subject. I remember having to write one of my law school exams and one of the papers. It was civil procedure. Was the whole Ghana must go just one course. You now find somehow just a Bible and the Holy Spirit. That has caused the greatest confusion today. The Bible and the Holy Spirit and the way he reads that Bible. It just reads it. But the meaning of that word is not. I don't care. That's what the Holy Spirit told me. And here we are. Look how many prayer points have come out of these simple things we are pointing out. Look how many denominations. Do you know how many people are covering their head? Do you know how many people are eating Passover?

Funnily, I don't blame the person that said must be eaten in the evening because it's true. If you are going to do something, do it well. Do you mean how many people? So we have a duty to not. I'm going to show you maybe tomorrow. The danger of invalidating the Old Testament is a terrible error that mustn't be done. And I thank God for the grace message. That's the slant of the grace message. It's a slant that needs to be corrected and quickly because you need to sit down and understand the Old Testament. Therefore can we say spiritual growth without the Old Testament is living in the babu. Would that be correct? Would that be correct? I spent more of my time in the epistles. Why? Well, a new convert can say that. Please help your newcomers to do that.

But you know, the new convert in Paul's days spent their times in the Old Testament. What is in ceremonial the word that may grow thereby? It's not First Peter, it's Malachi. What is that? Fed you with meat and not with milk. Book of Psalms. What is the doctrine of righteousness? Hebrews 5:12 to 14. Zephaniah. What is the words of eternal life. Acts 5:12 Exodus. We must therefore take the Bible more seriously. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/