In this also will mean that in putting together all we're saying, oftentimes, let me backtrack a little bit so that makes sense. Oftentimes there are three levels of understanding. Text, we said there is the author, the text and the reader. It's called the code, the encoder and the decoder. The encoder is the one who wrote it. The code is what he wrote. The decoder is the reader. So therefore we said, what determines the meaning? Is it just the writer or in this instance, the maker of the statement, or the statement itself or the reader of the statement? Now, before I go further, you know I'd already said something that the immediate context of Isaiah text, we said, it's Israel that ought to be a servant, Exodus 19, 5:6.

But it's not a servant still in the context, but it's God's will and purpose for Israel. But it failed. So Isaiah 53 talks about a nation, then a servant and all of that. And Paul, a future writer, an interpreter of that text, uses an identification unifier. That is, Paul simply throws himself in the servant, in the nation. And he says, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach plural. Whereas Isaiah said free. So that means in the contextual understanding of statements, we must look at unifiers, identification marks. Can this refer to more than one person? Maybe one person primarily than others? By, I said eschatological reference. For example, when we read about man and mankind, we find one person or person one, then humanity, that is immediate reference, then an eschatological applicative reference, other people.

So Paul will say the text is he, but there's a day with or in the he. So let's get back to what I was saying. What determines the meaning of a text? Also, where a writer employs imageries, the writer, for example in Isaiah, expects the reader to go to Genesis, for example, Exodus. So sometimes the writer may do what the epistles have done, which is primarily to throw in a short form of a wider, bigger narrative. So a member named C.S. Lew said this, an old man, 19th century scholar, he said, an author does not understand his writing more than anyone else. Now take that statement. An author doesn't understand his writing more than he or anyone else. Why did he say that? Because without the reader in mind, the author's words are vague and they have no meaning.

So again, the author, the text, and those who read it. So therefore, sometimes the author's intentions, okay, needs to be. Or most times the author's intentions needs to be merged with today's reader without having to compromise either. So therefore, interpreting text, I must merge two worlds, like Paul did to the Jew and then to the Greek. Romans 1, 16, 17, 2 worlds. The world of the author and the world today. Especially when the author is a prophet. If the author is a prophet, which the entire Old Testament books are called, why are they called prophets? That means their words might not have a singular application. Now be very careful about that phrase because they intend it to have an eschatological meaning. So finally this is done. Eschatological meaning that this is going to be done at this time.

So where that is in mind, I must be able to bring in the two worlds, the immediate world of the writer and then the world that proceeds from there or afterwards. So therefore, we are faced with not just relying on the author's intentions, because the author's world, especially in the Old Testament Jewish scriptures, that is predictive in nature, the author's world cannot be the sole determinant of a text. Because now let me tell you what I mean. We have laws in Nigeria that have to do with crime. They have Laws in mind, laws about this, laws about that. And there are times where you read the penalties of some of those things. You wonder what in the world were they thinking? Hundred naira. That's in their world. Okay, then there are certain things they will not foresee. You get it?

They will not foresee it. I don't think anybody who made laws, for example, there was a time when I was in law school, there was already challenges at using evidences from computers, computer. Because when most of the evidence acts were done, there wasn't anybody never thought about computers. Well, computers, where was. Or you now start talking about social media. That's why many missions are having lost for the social media. Nobody knew that somebody can wake up one morning and post news and everybody in the world read it. They thought it would go through broadcast stations. All of that. All of that, my God, you can sit in your room right now and just bomb the whole world. So which means that whilst I must go, what was the law?

Laws are evolving, some are abrogated, but let's imagine a law that stays the same way. I will say, okay, what's in the mind of the writer of this law? No matter how much I look at it, I can't explore its infinitum to capture my world. It's too far. What I will need to do as an interpreter today is to take that world and this world and say, what is the unifier? What are they intending to correct? If this is what they are intending to correct, then we are not going aside the law by saying these two. So I've been able to extend the mind of the writer without compromising his intentions. Let me see if you understand what I'm saying. So I. I must be able to say Isaiah. Okay? Isaiah has an eschatological intention that doesn't capture everything.

I'm sure when Isaiah mentioned Jesus among the transgressors, there was no Pharisee Sadducee. There was nothing to presuppose there will be an Herod, an Edomite on the throne. There was nothing to presuppose there will be a Roman Empire. But you know what? In spite of that not being in his intention, the eschatological intention captures it. So therefore, in my interpretation, I must know that I stand in two worlds for the sake of shortening the two worlds. But if I really search and research, I may be in four walls and saying, what is the meaning of this? So I'm going to throw the question out back. Does the writer solely own the meaning? No, the writer Solely doesn't own the meaning because the writer loses relevance if the reader is not brought into relevance in what he's writing.

So the writer of a statement important, but the reader of the statement is equally important. So therefore I must stand. And that's why I said, when you are on the pulpit, pay attention here. You know, sometimes you read a translation and you are not happy and you feel this translation, we're going to get to that. I hope we do that today. We have quite some things to look at. I look at translation and say, well, what's going on here? Why should you use stuff like this? And you feel angry because from your study, this world should not have been done this way. Now listen carefully. Everybody who stands on the pulpit to teach should do exactly what the translators do. That world and this world, or both worlds and this world.

So where Isaiah speaks about Israel fulfilling God's will, Jesus comes in because he's the substitute. Let me use that phrase. And then Paul says, there's also identification. So one text has three applications without compromising the writer. Do we mean that a text can have multiple meanings? No, but when you bring the reader and the implication, like I said, the eschatology, eschatological implication into the meaning, then you say, okay, for example, how can you call Abraham righteous without the new birth? But he was called righteous. And in that world, Abraham is a man who by believing, has corrected a wrong. What's the wrong? Idolatry, worshipping other gods. Then Abraham, ew Kenyan, was a unqualified committer. If you look at Abraham's world, you had idol worship. He's raised in idol worship. But he believes God. He has done the right thing. But you are here.

You don't have that in your world. You are not an idol worshiper. You are not the godless person. You probably grew up to go to church. But in immediate application, it means he abandoned idol worship and believed in Yahweh. Israel will be sendekar when they do the same thing in Egypt. But then we know there is a wider meaning to it. The eschatological meaning that we have the spirit of God, righteous. But it doesn't even stop there. In Romans 8, 38, 39, Paul throws the last dice. What shall separate us from the love of God in Christ? That is at the final end, you will be made right because of the spirit given to you, the seal. Your body, which is groaning now, will now be glorified. So you can see we have taken righteousness from Abraham, Israel, etc, Jesus, the just one.

Then the believer by faith in Christ, he has the Holy Spirit. He still will be made right because this body has not been corrected. Now, can we say it has multiple meanings? Not exactly. But the intention of the writer sometimes may be limited because of his world. We cannot give a writer superhuman abilities where he captures every world. Now, let mention this quickly because it's a critical. You know that there is no language. That is God's language. Which means that every writer of the scripture made use of their own languages, the language best understood by them, which 4,000 years after, you are not privy to everything. But you know what? You have no choice but to study their language, because language is core in understanding. So take that to this, the language. He has done the right thing.

That's why Phineas would throw an arrow, a spear and kill people. Pay attention. Who brought idolatry to Israel? And the same One in Genesis 56 was this one. He was declared righteous. He did what was right. I know you are scared at that because God is a good God. God is a good God. No one should kill. You're right. But there is nowhere justice is called evil. One of the things in 1 Corinthians 13 is love does not rejoice at iniquity. One of the things about the Messiah is that he will hate, right? He will hate wickedness and he will love righteousness. We'll explore all of that and through the choices, mind, to either know the meaning or assume the author will not have the sole right. The author is not superhuman, but I must never compromise the author. So what do I do?

I'm going to read a few quotes to us that will make sense. It therefore means that I look up guys that the intention of God is that every church, every assembly of the saints should be adherent of systematic theology. Let me explain the difference. Now, I'm not a professor also, but I can have very colloquial. I will use your words, but exegesis is when you explain a text by corroborating it, explain the meaning, the grammar, etc. But the challenge with exegesis is exegesis could be extremely limited, where you focus on the text and then just the text and then the concept therein and all of that in the books. But then you have systematic theology. What Jesus did in Luke 24 is both.

Systematic theology is when you go through all of the scriptures on the same subject matter, which means you will find the promise in the world of, you know, the world of Adam and Eve was not the world of Cain and Abel. It's not the world of Noah, Methuselah, Enoch, or even the world of Abraham. Things were already happening, different worlds. Or you have the world of Isaac and Jacob and Joseph. Then you have the Exodus, different events. Then you have the after, where they go to Canaan, the Judges, the Psalms, the Prophets, the Kings, different worlds. Then the New Testament Jesus came, and then the New Testament era where the church was born, and then on and on till you come to now. And you have a duty to present the truth with that in mind, your past, today and even the future.

So exegesis is lovely where you take texts and explain them. You must merge your exegetical understanding with an overall systematic theology of the Bible. Bible and the Epistles show you there was a background of systematic theology where whole Bible was read according to the Scriptures. So whilst in the Epistles they had exited the text, the overall understanding was a systematic meaning of the whole Bible. Therefore, what then is the key is what we have said here. Reading backwards, Where I read backwards. What do I mean by reading backwards? My ability to look at the history of scriptural texts and in the future of scriptural texts. That gives me a wholesale systematic theology of means, history of it, which is what has been happening. I'm reading backwards. Then I push it forward again into today's world or the world of the writer.