You can't say there's no offer to the whole world. There must be a specific people you are talking to. So it might not affect other people, but every letter has an audience, so to say. The ultimate is not for us. Then again, we fall into the streamline thinking of Old Testament Scriptures. The New Testament is revelation, but the truth is that the New Testament was not referred to as Scriptures because that's not what they were called. It's as simple as that. It's not like an exegetical statement that when you say that, just go home and drink a bottle of Coke, you've understood the word of God. No. Now, the challenge of dichotomy. What I'm saying here is so sensitive that I'm in awe of what I'm saying. The dichotomy of.

Now, naturally, I used to say, and I will still say it, that, well, many folks, the problem is they don't. They can't. They don't understand the New Testament and the Old Testament. Then I'm wondering, what did I just say? When the very strength of the New Testament is the Old Testament, like we have just said, when the apostles were writing, they were writing to an audience that they had studied the Old Testament with. So which means that when they were writing the epistles, what were they writing? They were writing from the Old Testament. Now, of course, my loose term, Old Testament here refers to books and not to the substance of the Old Testament. So let me tell you another thinking. Well, Jesus came to. This. This is a very sensitive statement I want to make.

He came to correct the impression that was hard about God in the Old Testament. Now, pause. If that is true, and it is so true that God had an impression in the Old Testament and it was so prevalent that Jesus came to do that, then there can't be unbelief. There can't be unbelief because that means there was a predominant wrong impression of God. Now, is Christ a factor? We've said that already. There's a predominant. Okay, so he just came and said, no, don't forget Moses. Forget this one. Forget them again. Look at something he did in Matthew 11. It's instructive that just like every Old Testament servant, it seemed like John the Baptist dropped the ball and he said, look, are you the Christ with one to come, or should we expect another?

And Jesus, at no point did he try to invalidate in any format John. In fact, he reinforced the ministry of John. You know why? Because he bore his authority from John's witness. That's critical. But John dropped the ball by what he said in Matthew 11:1 and 2. So now please listen carefully. What then did the New Testament writers do? Did they just look at the Old Testament and said, God does not do this again. He now does this. No. If they did that, then it's not a dire menu that Jesus in Luke 24, 25, 27. So we are therefore compelled to learn the emnotic of the epistles. Failure to do it will be to present to our world book of contradictions, which nobody dare to do, whether it is Jesus or the apostles.

I think what we run away from is painstaking theology because we must know what they did. Again, don't forget our foundation. So let us now examine the Old Testament. We're going to look at New Testament, let's say, okay, the author is Moses. His immediate audience are unbelieving Jews. This is his text. We said his text will therefore involve narratives, grammar, vocabulary of its world. So allow me. Now, this is Jesus thousands of years after. Same with Paul. Now Jesus's world is predominantly Jews with Gentiles here and there. Paul will face a largely gentile world. So who can identify? One of the first challenges they will have will be audience and grammar. Right, Right. Audience and grammar is going to be critical.

So again, if Paul takes the writings of Moses and now says, forget about this, God doesn't do this, forget about that, God doesn't do that. Would you call it interpretation? No, that is a meaning not even present with the author. Who's following. I'm saying here, that's a meaning not playing with the author at all. What if he says Moses was wrong? Then he cannot be said to be teaching from the Scriptures. Who's following what I'm saying here? So he must do what we said earlier. He must know the audience, the author, the language of the author. Then the implied audience will be the Gentile world that Paul is ministering to. He has a unifier, a Christ. So Paul will now do what we have said earlier. What is the world of this text?

What is the world of the writer now come to us today? What is the world of my audience? What is their grammar today? So interpretation based on my faith in Christ as the Messiah of the right, because it's the book of persuasion, is to now bring the worlds Together now, in bringing the worlds together. Look up, please. Will the mode of communication be different? Yes. Will the times be different? Yes. But the moment, Please hear this. The moment theology is different, then you have a contradiction. What must be consistent, the grammar or theology? Thank you. Do I need to unify the grammar to get theology? Yes. So the grammar, the. The world, the context of the world must be unified. When that is done, we arrive at the epistles. So I must know the systematic arithmetical theology or. Yeah.

Used by Paul or the writers of the New Testament. So if I read Matthew 5, you have heard of them of old, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. But now I say to you, if anybody should slap you, turn the other cheek. I'll say, well, under the Old Testament, you were allowed to kill, but not anymore. That is inconsistent theology. It leaves much to be desired of. And this is the reason why atheists are produced, because they think, and I understand it, that why would you say that God was like this, Then he changed. And while he was changing, millions were dying. So that theology becomes warped. So therefore the New Testament writer or the New Testament teacher has faith in Christ as the Holy Ghost, no doubt. But they had work to do.

He will therefore find out, like Moses, where is the wilderness? Where is Egypt in today's world, in Ephesus, in Rome, is there an exodus? Where is the slavery? What is the price paid? What is the atonement? He must therefore understand theological concepts in the proper grammar. That's why I believe that Paul had limitations. When he uses words like, you know, when you use words like now in the Hebrew, when you have redeemer, it was kinsman, Redeemer, where you please, guys, follow this one. Now. Where you go back to claim back your family. So King's man, Redeemer, where you take back what is yours, why we use that in Egypt, because of Abraham. Now you are in a gentile world where they are commercially driven. What would you use? Commercial terms. So you and I have to bridge that gap.

That's why today people assume that people still use that commercial term. Strictosenso talking like a lawyer, strictly that, oh, somebody is buying, somebody is selling. No, that is just to compress a spiritual truth in a commercial way. You mustn't be commercial in your thinking. So a kinsman redeemer vis a trader. A kinsman redeemer vis a trader. I must bridge the gap by going to. When I see Paul say redemption, I must go to the narrative. Without that narrative, I will live because there's no way my Greek audience will not develop a Jewish thinking in their study. They must develop a Jewish thinking because without that Jewish thinking in their world, they will be lost. When I say work, I must go to numbers. I must find out the wilderness.

I must now say, okay, I have the inheritance yet there's an inheritance, so I must find out. When I say led, I go. I go back. Where is the Exodus in this scenario? So when I use baptism too. The New Testament writer is an interpreter of the Old Testament writings. Now, I'm using the word New Testament, Old Testament in a very careless way, loose way. For the purpose of this teaching. We'll amend it as soon as we can. So their work was to unify the world. Do you know that just like they did to the writings of the Old Testament, we have to do the same thing to our world today? This, I believe, was a pursuit of many recent modern translations. Even though some of them that are bungled, it. It's just that capacity to bring everything into today's.

For example, look at the use of flesh. There has been so much of a unitary meaning or usage of words that I suggest. But then somebody rightly said that inasmuch as those things are too singular, yet multiple flesh is both. You can say flesh, food, flesh, body, flesh, sin, flesh, sight, things you can see, and there's no distinction. So the content of the book, the content of the narrative of the book, where it is in the Old Testament, comes to play. Look at body of sin. Romans 12, Romans 8:12 and 13, Romans 6. 6. Body of sin. Soma means what is united together. Where you use body, you. And I will say physical body. But the Greek is something that is constituted.

So anything that occurs to them, say the body of examiners, body of benchers, body of physical body, also human beings coming together. So when you say Romans 8:12. So that means look at something that happened in Romans 8:11. If the Spirit of him that raised up Christ from the dead. I mean, that scripture is quite complicated, complex. He that raised up Jesus, he used Christ Jesus. Which means that in one sense, it goes to the Old Testament, in one sense, the four Gospels, in another sense, today, in one verse, so he says, therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to live after the flesh. For if you live after the flesh, you die. Why? Because he has shown you that the sin has been condemned in the flesh.

But if through the spirit, you mortify, of course, the Greek, there is not you, the person who mortified the deeds of the Body is the spirit of God. And when you say put to death, Exodus, the firstborn pharaoh, the baptism of Romans 6:4 to 6. Then it says, put to death the deeds of the body. Praxis of the soma, you are alive. So imagine having the complexity of find out Romans 8:11. Is it the physical body or the body of sin? So it's a pact text that requires careful handling. But it doesn't matter whether it's the body of sin or the physical body. The same thing. Ha. No, one of it is called the Temple of God, so you cannot put it together in the same bracket. I just gave you a simplistic one. So you are therefore within the tangent of Paul.

He takes the Jewish Scriptures, which includes the Torah, the prophets, the Psalms, and then he looks at Ephesus, he looks at Colossi, and he says, he didn't write it to you, but you had. He had you in mind unconsciously as a prophet when he wrote this. How do you know Paul? He looks into his world and picks similar grammar, similar grammar, similar context, and say, this is it. So he writes Ephesians 1, context of today, with the mind of context of Daddy, who's following what I'm saying here. So if you and I don't know the emnotic of New Testament writers, we will keep entering time bombs because we'll have the same danger of segregating Scriptures. And say, that is the Old Testament, this is the New Testament. So say the Old Testament. Is the New Testament concealed?

The New Testament, is the Old Testament revealed? They will ask you what was taught in New Testament. You say the Old Testament, what was taught in the Old Testament. You say the New Testament, so what is older? You don't even know. So we are at that crossroads because of that unusual, unnecessary, or let me say carelessly done dichotomy. So we are faced with challenges. Okay, God said this, but it was for that time. How about when you now read text that says, this shall be a memory for your generations forever? How do you run out of that forever? You say what? He says, the Jews is the Jews forever. So you have therefore admitted Judaism, because it is forever. It means that if they are doing it now, then they are doing it. Then you abrogate many things. Paul is saying.

Let me say something. We often teach righteousness as righteousness means forget the law, just believe in Jesus. But the very first time Paul talks about being justified in the book of Romans, it was about the law. We have said already that the Torah are the utterances of God. That has to do with his instructions, his judgment, his promises. That's Genesis 26:5, right? So we must calm down. That's the word I wanted to use. We must calm down and say, you know what? When Paul says the things you have heard of me among many witnesses, what that means is you are there. And you saw how he handled the Old Testament. The same commit to faithful men. He's not asking them to teach efficiency. He's asking them to teach the Torah, the prophets and the Psalms.