So it was a law given to clarify the subject of homosexuality because there was no specific garment made for male and female. If it's today, if you say skirt, the priests were the ones wearing skirt and gadoo. And there are nations that wear trousers for women, skirts for men. But basically he's saying, don't mingle a man and a woman as the same. So why is this? So why does Moses forbid mixture? You can just add this. It is to explain wholeness and integrity, oneness, even in the animals that were offered for sacrifice. We've done this before. Leviticus 21, 18, 24, Leviticus 22, verse 18 to 20. The animals were supposed to not be deformed, showing completeness and wholeness. Again, you had pagan nations in view who were doing the sacrifices. So let's see a few things and run through.

At Genesis 1, God divided the waters. God divided light and darkness. And also in the sanctuary as well, the temple. Temple, they had division. The land of Israel was called divided. So therefore what was done sociological was to point to a higher principle of how they must worship God without a divided attention. So the essence of saying, hey, separate this from this will be twofold. One, it is to make a distinction in that nation of Israel, 1, 2, and. And also to cause a separation. Light from darkness, nation from nation, Israel from idol worship. Now, this is just for your studies. Again, like I said, we've been here before. Leviticus 11 and Deuteronomy 14 will now show you the different kind of animals to be eaten and not to be eaten.

For example, normally you look at creation, and then you look at creation as three folds. Animals on the land, animals in the waters, and animals in the air. So that means that there must be. Just like God said, this is the land, this is the air, this is the sea. The creatures, therefore, will be which one walks on the land, which one swims in water, which one flies in the air. So therefore, in the dietary laws, when you choose animals to be eaten, they must be found in those territories where you have animal that crosses from the water to the land, or vice versa. It is said, don't eat. How was that said? He said, again, to prevent the nation from mingling. It's a lesson of holiness, not the animals in themselves.

Again, in looking at the dietary laws, you have pigs, for example, who were forbidden to be eaten. Why? Because they were not chewing cords. They had divided hooves. Hooves are. Look at the toes of animals. And then you also had camels. The chewed cord, but had no hooves. But sheep and goats were accepted because they had split hooves and they chewed cord. So therefore a crossbreed was not accepted. If you're in the land, being the land, if you're on sea being the sea, if you're in the air, being the in the air. Pelicans and gulls were forbidden to be eaten. Pelicans, the ghost is G U double L S. Why? They were found on land and sea and insects also with many legs. But the interesting thing is all foods are clean. Mark 7.

Paul says, there's nothing that God created is not good for food. Acts 10 but the essence of using animals is to see this animal has transgressed. He has left where it ought to be. So by asking not to be eaten, it was just a figure of speech. Again, so that means the first principle. There is again the transgression law. That as this animal crossed the boundary, as this animal remained in his habitat, whether it was created or not, if it has not, he says, thou shalt not eat of it, showing holiness. Then we come to another way. You look at the issue of the fall or the death or the sin of man. Then in Genesis chapter two, where he says, thou shalt eat. I mentioned that earlier. And thou shalt not eat of it. You have life and death in view.

Here Moses says, don't eat predator animals that eat themselves. Why did he say that? Because they eat blood. What's he talking about? He's talking about life and death. Also animals are secrets. Semen. Because semen represents life. Don't touch it. Or any human being that is like that should go and clean yourself. Why? Because it represents life and death. Also, any meat eating wild beast was to be avoided. Exodus 22:31. Where a woman discharges blood. Where you have a woman in a menstrual period. The reason for that was not to debate the woman. In those days they used to worship things like that. And they see it as a message to from the gods. Moses now says, no, it represents loss of life. So he says, she is unclean. Then she go through purification. Well, if you understand what he's saying perfectly.

It is just figurative of life and death. So when Jesus comes, he doesn't break it, he only fulfills it by the things that he did that he taught. Predator animals were also avoided. You have owls, gulls, hawks, vultures. Why? Because they eat blood in Genesis 9 and 4, there was an instruction not to eat blood. Now I know you have by eating suya the way you have done Genesis 9. The flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof. Thou shalt not eat. Thou shalt not eat. In chapter two, chapter three, chapter nine and four. Here, verse four here, Leviticus 17:14 equally. So you found out that animals that eat herbs and plants, you can follow those ones that chew cord, that have split hooves or toes, but the moment they eat blood or have contact with blood, they.

You are not to have anything to do with them. What about animals without scales? That is fish without scales. It shows an incomplete, needy animal. Why are you not supposed to eat? Again, that represents the vulnerable. Don't hurt them, don't touch them. So all these are woven, the social interaction and the loving laws were woven around the worship of God. And that's why Jesus said that the moment you love your neighbor, you have fulfilled everything. So the 612 laws were woven around interacting mercifully, interacting in compassion. They may not appear like that on the face of it, but when they are read in context, the moment a man walks in love, Exodus 20 or Romans 13, it works enough. It fulfills everything. Showing you that the dietary laws were parabolic in nature. They are not meant to affect your food.

They are not meant to affect what you eat, even though you are supposed to check what you eat. Amen. But they are meant to teach. They are meant to explain the statutes of God. Don't cross over, don't transgress, dress, don't hurt somebody else. So they are all built around it. That is why even you look at it scientifically and what do you call it now look at the laws of nutrition. Many of them fail at this point because there have been discoveries in science and all of that, but at that moment, the reason for it was the holiness of God. Because God is holy. You discover in Leviticus, you say, because I, the Lord, am holy. So don't transgress, don't eat what reminds you of mortality. Don't eat what reminds you of death. Don't touch what reminds you of what sin has done.

And when a woman has a menstrual period, the reason why, you know, it's again, not to have a reminder of death, because what happened in the garden is what it reminds you of. Just a lot of such narratives. Again, when you are told not touch, you know, innocent animals or animals without fins, animals who can, don't touch the vulnerable. It represents the beggars, the laborers, and all of that. So by saying predation is wrong, simply saying to kill is wrong. Whatever has life should not be touched. So animals that kill themselves are supposed to be not. You don't eat of this. So by the time you understand what it means to eat and not eat it, therefore.

But the fact that what the lawgiver was basically saying was, walk in love, be sanctified, again we look at the bigger narrative, another narrative of the laws, of the idol worship of their days, you know, which may not be our study for this period. But the dietary laws, as you look at it, had to do with what those animals represent, what they represent in the reign of sin and death and no more. And Jesus now asked them, how can it make you unclean? If you eat food, where does it go? And I say, it goes to the toilet. Exactly. It is what comes from the heart. So by saying, don't eat a predator animal is saying, don't hate people. By saying, don't eat animal that is vulnerable, it means don't hurt vulnerable people. Do you understand?

Because you know that what you eat doesn't make you clean or unclean. So the dietary laws were to guide human conduct amongst themselves. That is why Jesus said, upon this hangs all the law and the prophets. Upon this, that is, if you worship God, theology of it and then the sociology of it is to walk in love. Anyone who walks in love, anybody who walks in love fulfills the entire 612 laws. Anybody. When you walk in the spirit, Paul says, you are not under any law. Let me stand if I follow what I'm saying here. So they point to human interaction. That's why she said the Sabbath was made for man. So the dietary laws will refer to our interactions. It's from the heart comes in. Jesus says, adulteries, hatred, murders, drunkenness is from the heart.

Say what is not what you eat that makes you unclean. Is what comes from your heart. So those animals, those foods were depicting the heart of men. Does it make sense? And that therefore explains what? So if you are Moses, I now want to explain how sin happens. Then you see the first man who sinned and the woman, male and female, what is nearest for you to use for a nation given to idol worship, that in their worship of idols, food represented the worship you will use tree. Do you get it? So you say, the fruit of this one life. The fruit of this one is death. And then after teaching them, you now say, I present you life and death, good and evil. Choose life, choose that which is good. And then he says, in your heart, love the Lord your God.

Have your heart circumcised for him by believing in him. So he has explained Genesis 2 for you. Now, what I'm referring to as a tree, another good and evil, or a tree of life, happens where in the heart, man. Let me see how. If you understand that, you must read them together. So the dietary laws are not to be a vegetarian or whatever. They are teaching lessons on human interactions and also the worship of God. Let me take it again. I think I must mention that some of them will deal with theology, our worship of God, that God must be worshipped alone. So by the food you eat, I'm reminding you of the worship of God, by the food you do not eat, I'm reminding you of the worship of God by the things you eat. I'm reminding you of sociology.

Now, the way you should interact by the food you don't eat, I'm also reminding you of how you should interact. Don't hurt these people, don't touch these people. Don't do this, don't do that. Is it getting clear to you? Why does he have to go that route? Why does he have to go down? Do you know what route I go to explain things you look at, even how you are looking. After Jesus has come, look at. Do you know that today some people, no matter how you teach, until you talk stories, you have to tell stories and stories and stories. They say, that man is practical. So Moses is being what? Practical. The reason why it's different to you now is because you don't know anything about those things. But if it was your everyday life, you say, wow, this guy can teach.

But because you are crossing from your own world to their world, when you say temple, you helpful to the Jew. They understood what it was. Tabernacle was something they had done in Egypt. Then Moses says, I will dwell in you. Who? A God that we have said is heaven and earth. I will dwell in you. How so he says, watch. After seeing where God will do well, you now began to construct a building that after you have contented for this, you should be. You should come to your mind, okay? So if you come in here and year out and you go in, then you go to the holiest of all, then you should remind yourself, this is where God will dwell. This is your body. This is where you dwell and say, you know what? Just hear from him and talk to us directly.