First Corinthians 15. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received and wherein you stand. I said the word Gospel is the news of the arrival of a king claiming of a territory. It's an Isaiah phraseology which we must accustom ourselves with. When you see phrases like that, don't forget the background is the Old Testament, by which also you are saved if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I devised you first of all that which I also received. Our Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, Cartatas, graphenes, that is, this is how the Scriptures are thus read. And that he was buried and he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. And it was seen of CAPHAs 10 of the 12.

And we said, not just the words, even the stories of the Old Testament, they culminate in the death burial of Jesus. So so far we have looked at the laws of Moses and laws, the different 612 laws, the permissions, the commandments and all of that. And we said that they are only read and understood in their world, where you know the situation, the circumstance, the kind of culture that was prevalent at that day and in that time, then that will let you see what he was saying. So one of the things we also achieved was to say that the law therefore was an incremental step. That is back to Genesis 1 and 2, Genesis 3, there's a sin four demonstration of that sin. And from five human mechanisms, creations came sin entered into the world and death by sin.

And Paul, therefore, by telling you in Romans 5 that sin reigned or death reigned, shows you that you will see a lot of imperfections. From that Genesis 4 through to Malachi, chapter 4, you see imperfections. And that was what God had. He didn't have a Christ Jesus to show his will and purpose in the earth. And we mentioned that even with Jesus, God who became a man and physically present, we still saw, you know, human perception, what people would do without him. They still did. And so it become very unfair to say that it is religion or Christianity otherwise that brought about mass murder, killings and all of that. That is very unfair. That is scholastic dishonesty. Because you are definitely going to ignore many other worshipless nations who, like Thomas Hobbes, said they were without a law, without government, brutish, nasty and short.

And so we looked at a few things. We're going to get a bit specific in this session. Now I'm going to run a bit more look at the issue of the Sabbath now in Moses. Now, a key element, don't forget, is that the background of Exodus is what? Now pay attention. You know, you should also split Genesis into two. Genesis 1 and 2 should stand on his own. Genesis 3 will stand in the middle. Then Genesis falls down. You will see sin's manifestation. Now let's look at something. When Cain killed Abel, you know, what did God do? Nothing. What have you done? He took revenge. And it says, let nobody touch him. How about that? That sounds strange. Let nobody touch him.

And the guy went ahead and created, you know, all sorts of systems and governments came out of him, which we call today, we call it the system of this world. So the system of this world, the government of this world, was built upon what Cain did to Abel. Government, coercion, and all of that. So it becomes strange for us for somebody to say he's powerful, does not destroy. But yet in the power of God, that does not destroy. It destroys hatred, murder, flesh and sin. So you must say, in the beginning, it was not. So that is okay. At the very onset, this is not what it was. And that beginning is not Genesis 4, Genesis 1 and 2. Then sin entered into the world. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? And that becomes the way and the.

The plot or the pilot with which you read the entire account. Let's pick out the Sabbath. The Sabbath was also a major thing for the Jew. It was a major one for the Jew. Now, let mention this. Until. Until Moses gave the law, there was no day by any of the patriarchs where they said it was for the Lord. Not one, not one. So the Sabbath, therefore, was like a copy or a version of a day that was used in the Eastern world. It's used to worship their gods. They usually picked a day. I think I saw historical recordings, too. So to take their mind off idols, Moses says, there will be a day, the seventh. And the figure seventh again is his time.

The figure seventh is where you have, you know, completion, where you have the end, then 8th, where you have the beginning. So Moses was simply using what you can call something that is superstitious to explain God's redemptive plan. He had to use the imperfect to explain the perfect. So all those things were man creation. That's what God had to use. So the language of the day had to be employed by the writers of the day or the speakers of the day to speak about another day entirely. An example is the Sabbath. Again, look at the background. There was no example. There was no story of a particular special day from Genesis chapter four down. But Genesis 2:1,3 gives us a Sabbath that God finished his work, and then man rested in it. Genesis chapter 2, verse 3.

He rested from all the work which God created and made. Hebrews 4, 3 through to 4 lets us know that this is God's salvation plan. So that means when he was telling them, please listen carefully, to take a day to remember how God did what, how God rescued them from Egypt. So you now take a day remember it. And in his teaching series, the material he uses is Genesis 1 and 2. That means already it lets them see that the Sabbath was command. That was already in Genesis, that was in the teaching notes. But the way they were going to, because of the idle practice of their day, the way he was going to have them do it was on that day they would do nothing because God did nothing. I mean, because man was supposed to do nothing.

God had finished what he was doing. So he was going to use, allow me say this, an idle practice to explain the redemptive work of God, that is the Sabbath. So when Jesus came, as it were, and he says in Mark 3:28, he says, man, or the Sabbath was made for man. So Mark 2:28, the son of man is the Lord of the Sabbath. The Sabbath was made for man, verse 27, not man for the Sabbath. What is he reading from Genesis? In other words, he's reading the Sabbatarian laws in the context of Genesis. That must be the way you study in the context that is, Genesis becomes the context of the Sabbath laws. So let me ask a question, please stop, and let's reason together. Is sin and death universal? Is the law of Moses universal? No, let's take it again.

Is sin and death universal? Was the law of Moses universal? No, it was for a nation. So that means it became an incremental explanation of God's universal principle of salvation. I almost said universal salvation. So therefore we need to now go back and read the context of each story. Before I get to Genesis 10, I must recognize that Genesis 1 and 2 will be the context of Genesis 3. I can't understand the life till I know the image. I can't know the darkness till I know what was the light. So I need to read 3 in the context of 2 and 1 and read 4 in the context of 3. 4 Is where you have murdered the human systems and governments emanated. And then I read the context of 3.

Therefore, I will divide a story of the Bible from that point to say Genesis chapter 10 from verse 31 to 32 now shows us the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues in their lands, after their nations. These are the families of the sons of Noah. That's after the flood, after their generations in their nations. And in these nations dividing the earth upon the flood. That means you now had something. People now started dividing. So I want you to listen very well. Please, please. So there was a nomadic lifestyle. People were moving. So right in Genesis we find a movement of humanity. Humanity is going away from one place. All over they are moving. And in moving, they are being reformed in their culture. It's moving. They. Then in Genesis 11, we had one speech, one language, etc.

So humanity began, as it were, here to be wandering. Genesis 12:2. God now calls one of these wanderers a man and asks him, you know what? Live where you are and go to a land. Verse 2, that I will show you. And this is, we have seen. Now to worship. Genesis 22, verse 2. Now, as you read that Genesis 12 and 2, don't forget the writer has a corroboration or a correlation somewhere. Exodus 1. And verse nine or verse seven says the grew children of Israel fruitful multiplied in the land that was filled. That's not the land of Genesis 12:2. And there arose a new king over Egypt, which did not know Joseph. Exodus 3 and 7. For I have heard the afflictions which are in Egypt, and heard their cry by reason of their tax masters, for I know their sorrows.

So in other words, they found themselves in a strange country, in a strange land. Therefore, it's obvious that what he promised Abraham, okay, was far from their experiences. So we have another story that means between what he promised Abraham and now, we now have the children of Israel in a foreign nation. All these stories become a parable or a story of a figure, figuratively speaking, or call it cryptic, of what God is about to do or what God has done now in today's language. So the first thing we discover is humanity scattered in the earth. 2. God now said, no, there's actually a land, and man is to be together as one seed. Then they found themselves yet again in land that is on exile. Then there's the Exodus. After that, we now have what you can call kingdoms.

First Samuel 24, first Samuel 24. Or you can actually start from 1 Samuel 10, but I'll just speak 1 Samuel 24 where you now have verse 20. Behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand. So pay attention. We have a family. We have a land, a nation. Now we now have a kingdom, the kingdom of Israel. 1St Chronicles 28. 5. Just put that there. Then yet again they become exiles. And now they are called remnants. Jeremiah 42. 4. Jeremiah 42 and verse 4, I heard thee. We would appear unto God through the world. I said, come. That whichever thing that God answered, he says, I will declare. No, wait. Ezekiel 5, 20. That's a mistake. Okay, sorry. Verse 14. I'll start from 13.

If you say we will not dwell, that's Sorry, I'm going back to Jeremiah 42. I'm getting too fast. We will not dwell in this land, neither obey the voice of the Lord your God if you say no. But we will go to land of Egypt, where we shall see no war, nor hear the sound of the trumpet, nor have hunger of bread. And there we will dwell. So at this point, they were found in exile. Now by the time you have Nehemiah, Daniel. Nehemiah, Daniel. Yeah, Nehemiah, Daniel, part of Isaiah. At this point, they were now found in exile. Now it says in verse one. On that day they read in the book of Moses in the orders of the people. And therein were found that the Ammonites and the Moabites should not come into the conviction of God forever.

So they became a distinct nation. Why? Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and water. They hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them. How be that? God turned the curse into a blessing. So they now were distinguished as a congregation. That's the Hebrew word, Kwalal. So let's take it again. Humanity began to wonder. Two, you now had Abraham to a land. The land will now be a kingdom. That they found themselves again in exile. And yet God reaffirms that there will be a kingdom. I will visit that scripture again. Then he says to them that in this kingdom or in this nation, you will not be joined to other nations. So it will be unique and peculiar. So the critical thing is to say that why is the exile story vital?