Righteousness also means for the Jew and Gentile to stand together without a fear of inferiority or a fear of guilt or condemnation. It works in that bigger picture. So why did Paul say in Romans 7 that the law is spiritual? Verse 14. But I'm carnal soul under sin. What's he talking about there? The moment you think Paul is talking about himself, whereby not by edification, but then, not directly. Paul is bringing the Israel Exodus experience that what God said is spiritual. The only issue is that the men were canal sold on that sin. So the law that promised life now promised death. You should know that what that means now, that is because of their hardness of heart, it now brought death. What promised life now brought death. Romans 7:10. Why is it found to because I am carnal, I am of the flesh.

You have echoes of Genesis 6, 2 and 3 and of course the Exodus experience. So the issue in the Law where we find the law of sin and death is where the law of faith was broken. Where the law of faith is broken, the result is the law of sin and death. Moses, because of the hardness of your heart. Matthew 19:8. So the law of sin and death is where the law of faith. Can we say the law in Genesis? Would that be correct? The law of God is broken. So the law of sin and death, just like Romans 5:12, sin entered into the world. It entered into the world. Galatians 3. The law came by. It came by the side. That is the law came. It came along. That's what Prosecco may I think that's what it came along.

I'm not sure whether that's a Greek word. Along would be by the side. Okay, Parasekoma. So it came along. Galatians 3, where it says, the law was added because of their transgression. Galatians 3 and verse 19. It was added because of their transgressions. So the transgression is the mother of that. I know Paul is talking about circumcision. All the days and months and all of that said, it was added. Said. But what is the law of God, the promise that he made? In that promise you have faith in God and the faithfulness to that faith in God. So the law was added. So we must not be careless. Look at why would. For what cause should a man divorce his wife? He says from the beginning, he that made them male and female. The Torah, the Torah, the message.

Then he says, whatever God has joined together, therefore let no man put asunder. That looked at him and said, Why then did Moses give a bill of divorcement? Tell him how to put it. His wife said, Moses, because of the hardness of your heart. To what? To the law of faith permitted. So we have seen that word anthropson, which. Listen carefully now boils down to what we have said on the permissive tenses. Permissive tenses. Saying quickly that Moses could not do anything. Can we also say Moses did not do anything? What Moses said, it appears like it is Moses's action, but it is actually your heart. Moses in view. Pro sclericadion entrepreneur in view. For I thought it was Moses who said it. I thought it was Moses who wrote it. He said, Moses, language is permissive.

It only shows what you wanted to do, the hardness of your heart. So can we therefore say the law of sin and death, which, though is written, didn't come from God, even though God is made to be active, the angels were present. But the truth is, it is only to carry out or to write out what is already in the heart of a man. So coming with the permissive tenses is also the action that the tenses show. The tenses are permissive and also the actions that it shows. So in Romans, for example, whether you read Romans 6, 7, and 8, you are reading Paul's explanation of the Exodus, Deuteronomy, to a Jew and Gentile nation. He finds a unifier, like we have said, he finds a common ground. He finds them in their walls. Then he explains it.

So Adam is in every man or Adam is in every unbeliever or sorry. Adam is in every man or Adam is in every hardened heart. Adam is in every hardened heart. It becomes a type, it becomes an example. Abel is in every believer. Noah, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. So the use of the word law requires more than a simplistic explanation. Every time you see the law. The law was given by Moses, grace and truth. Now you know we said that there are multilayers of explanation. I can ask, I can also say the law of sin and death was given by Moses. I won't be wrong, but to be very explicit, I would rather use the word law was given by Moses for the expansive understanding of both the law of faith and the law of sin and death. Now why did I say that?

Because in John 5, Jesus said, I'm not one to come to accuse you. Verse 45, before the Father there is one who accuses you, Moses, whom you trust. If you had believed in Moses, you will have believed in me. For he wrote of me, you don't believe my words because you didn't believe his own. So in other words, Moses's accusation category is what we find as the basis of the law of sin and death. And Jesus is not in any way saying what Moses wrote was wrong. No, he hasn't said that. Because you discover that the teaching of Jesus. Teaching my of Jesus equally talks about the wages of sin, the harvest of disobedience, just like Moses. So when we talk about the law of sin and death, we look at the ceremonies, the rituals, the human elements of unbelief.

Because of the hardness of heart of the audience of Moses, we therefore must never ever in one fell suit flow away what Moses has said. Because the things Moses has said can be thus explained and thus put together appropriately. Once again, don't forget that in the temptation of Jesus, the three texts that he mentioned, the three were from Deuteronomy. Why? Please look up to this. This is very critical. The three texts. And we said Deuteronomy is the second law. Deuteronomy will be a test of faith or unbelief. The army will be to play back Genesis 2 and 3. And therefore Jesus therefore now stands as an Adam who will be an example, and in that will be an Adam who will be an example. Jeremy 8:3 Martially, my brethren, by every word of God. Romy 6:16, 6:13 and 16 6:16.

First, thou shalt not tempt the Lord your God. 6:13. Only him would you worship and serve faith. Now did you notice that the first temptation was the first three, which we have said are events that happen amongst men, was a temptation of faith or unbelief every word of God. Thou shalt not worship any other person. Thou shalt not tempt the Lord your God. It was a temptation test of faith in God. Can we therefore say it was now proven by a test of faith in God shown by love, the love of God. So having established the faith in God or faith in the faithfulness of God, Jesus now demonstrates it by going to the cross. The two things Thou shall love the Lord your God, which is what the three temptations bring out. Thou shall love your neighbor as yourself.

So faith in God and faithfulness to that faith. So faith in God and faithfulness to that faith is why Jesus went to the cross. Upon these two hangs the law and the prophets. The second is like unto the first. So we must be careful not to discharge things that we cannot explain. We must be found doing. Look at Paul. Paul wants to talk about how you must treat preachers. Jesus wants to talk about how you must treat preachers. Then they use the ox and the corn. How would I think the ox and the corn. I'm talking about the preacher and the pastor. Which means that. Read it again in your own world. How would I have thought that's what he's talking about? We can go on and on.

So the concept of a daba is such that the Old Testament prophet who has believed our report and used a general phrase, the concept of a daba means that the Old Testament has the same message, only connected to different audiences in different contexts. But you will find the unifier in everything. What unifies Isaiah's world and David, Moses world. And if. Pay attention here. If Moses can unify Israel in Egypt with Adam, Eve, the serpent, then that means you and I must settle down in the way we study Scriptures. We must in the way that we study Scriptures. Therefore I did say this the other day. I wanted to go back that again in Isaiah 53. Please quickly go there. Who has believed our report. Verse 1. And to whom is the harm of the Lord revealed?

Verse 2 now says, for he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of the dry ground. He hath no form, nor coming less than where we shall see him. There is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised, rejected of men, a man of sorrows acquitted with grief. And we hid as well our face from him. It was despised that we esteemed him notice. Verse 4. Surely he had Borne our griefs, carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities. That we have our peace was upon him. We decided we are healed. Now look at the expression of that. The first thing I'll say is that God just. This is the idea.

We think God just took Jesus and then he went to sacrificing for sins. How did you. Is there a way. Please look at God. Okay? Is there a way I can explain the sacrifice of Jesus without the wickedness of man? No. So when you hear for our transgressions, that means man played a part, a major part. The hatred was a transgression. The angels was a transgression. The betrayal was it. For there was a sin setting in itself. An innocent man was invoked upon justice and judgment that he did not deserve. So we have to look at it in two folds. Jesus was given by God the Father to a wicked men or to wicked men. He was wounded for our transgressions. So our transgressions wounded him. Our iniquities place a stripe on him, And by it we are healed.

So once again, we must always place the New Testament in Old Testament narratives. Not to stalk mere stories, but to explain theology in the stories. As we have seen that Moses breaks down Israel's story in a theology, creation story in a theology, the flood story into a theology. Everything was wound around theology. So the psalmist will say, this is the word of the Lord, the Daba of God. So therefore, let me give you one of the excerpts you get. So therefore, in reading the Old Testament, let me just mention a few critical things. Look at the eschatological implication of Genesis 12:3. In thee shall all, bless them that bless thee, curse them that curse thee. In these shall all the families of the earth be blessed. You find a future tense showing you that I will make eschatological. I will.

And Abraham believed in God. So we will find God's promises not done in the stories, but given in the stories. So we must be able to weave that around the Daba, which has been personified. Personified. So the eschatological importance is something you must look at that God says something historically that didn't happen. Then has it come to pass? And how that will inspire you and I to go through and over the language. What is the seed? What is the land? What are the waters? Go through it. Therefore, going back to what we discussed earlier, and we'll approach that will mean we must never depart from Genesis. We must never depart from Genesis. And we must. We will always be faced with the Adam scenario. The day you eat of it, you will die.

What you find there will be judgment, justice, what is right, what is wrong, what God will do and what God will not do. And so in the permissive sense or tense will find the actions of man, the devil. Whereas the tone in English is active and loud. The Hebrew is silent or non existent. You are cursed above the cattle because you have done this. You are cursed. So there will because you have done this in all our narratives within the Old Testament. So our understanding of Genesis precisely 1 to 3 and 4 will inform how we'll interpret the entire Bible. If we get it wrong there, we get it wrong everywhere. And like I said, the Book of Job is a pointer to the imageries, poetry, monologues, prologues, dialogues of the Bible.