First Corinthians 15. First Corinthians 15. We're still in the Gospel of Matthew, but we're going to take a journey back to the Old Testament for a purpose. Now, in verse one, he says, moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received and where you stand. So that debunks a theory like the gospel is for the unsaved, the gospel is the entire news of the Bible. It's not a message for somebody that, I guess, because the word good news, it appears that, oh, something you're hearing for the first time. But it goes beyond that. We said the gospel. The phrase gospel is an Isaiah phrase, and it has to do with a king returning or a king claiming a territory, or a news of an exploit.

And so, and it's more in Isaiah, for example, we have Isaiah 60:1, the spirit of the Lord is upon me to preach the gospel. Before that, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel or publish glad tidings of good things. So it's an Isaiah phrase. And when you hear Isaiah, the background of Isaiah is always excellent. Kingdom, return, exploits, deliverance, redemption, restoration, and all of that. So that's because they were in exile. This context of what he was saying, then how does it become relevant when Jesus came? Because even though they were in their land, they were still in exile in the sense of the fact that they had another king, number one, a king that wasn't son of David. And secondly, they now had Rome impose authority on them, even in their land.

So it's like exile, while not in exile. So the gospel therefore will be a kingdom message. That is, the king has come, the king has claimed the territory. And so that incorporates forgiveness of sins. By the time you start saying, okay, what did he claim? What's the deliverance about? The forgiveness of sins incorporated, and the signs of it, like healing the miraculous, comes in the discipleship as well. That is where you are trained to the citizenship of a kingdom, where you are taught how to act in a kingdom, for example, discipleship. So all that is, they are all grammatical and understood within the context. Because if you say it's a kingdom, assuming it's a territory on its own, let's put it in a very simple way, they are not in exile even though they are in exile.

You are not of this world, even though you are in this world, that captures it very well. So the same way that they had, as it were, another king around, another authority, and Jesus showed up and says, I am the king. And he doesn't have a throne, he doesn't have the kind of authority you'll have imagined. I'm the kingdom is here. You can't see him in the palace. It's the same way that we are of this world. We are in this world, even though we are not of this world. You know, it comes in when we begin to look at how it's applied. We said on Thursday, yes, that you hack three things. You look out for one. What is written in Scripture is primary, that you read the whole context, everything.

Then how it's explained within the grammatical facts, the things that surround it, then what is the application in their world? So in their world, if you don't understand it in their world, in their time, in the context of what was said, you cannot understand it in your own time and your own context. So before you start asking, okay, what about today? You must say, what about then? That must be your first approach. The moment you really force in the lenses of today, you miss out the entire picture. You start with, what about then? Then now becomes now. And so when you use the phrase gospel, we said, you must go to Isaiah, and then what was in the world then? Then it becomes relevant to you in our world today.

So verse three says, for I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and he was buried and he rose again the third day, according to the Scripture, there was seen of Cephas, then of the 12, and then chapter 11, verse 23. For I received the Lord that which I also delivered unto you is like almost the same phrase that the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And this instance he's relating with us the Passover. And he says it's according to the Scriptures. So we said yesterday that you have Passover in first Corinthians 5, 7 and 8. And then where he called Christ the Passover, Christ now becomes a meal, I.e. Lordship of Jesus, then the meal of Christ.

And then a lot of things come to your mind quickly as touching food, meals, drinks in the Old Testament. Then he says how he died for our sins according to the Scriptures, how he was buried in the third day. So you will find this meal within those events. He says his death, his burial, resurrection, and prior to his death is what you can call the Incarnation. And I said yesterday that there was first of all a preview of the kingdom, then a purview, that is before it came, we saw it in Christ or through Christ, then When he came, the kingdom came, which you can't have a kingdom without people. And so he came as a king, okay? And then the people will come. Upon his resurrection, I'll build my church. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against him.

Matthew 6, 18, 19 and thereof. So one of the key things we have studied so far is the ability to read the Scriptures together as a singular unit. As a single or singular unit, where you are able to read it together and you're not taking them in peace. Meeting, piece, meals and apart. The ability to say, well, Genesis is Matthew is. Romance is important. But you don't arrive there very quickly. You arrive there painstakingly and it's a long journey that you keep taking and keep seeing. So now we're going to take a break off Matthew, but through Matthew we'll get to where we're going and we'll come back there. So just start again from 17 through to 24 today. But before we go there, go to Matthew 5 and let's see something.

One of the key elements of Bible study is to discover that there are ways to read the Bible primarily. And most importantly, or more importantly, most maybe, is the fact that the Bible itself has the way it reads itself. What do I mean by that? By the time you see how New Testament writers read the Old Testament, it shows you how the Bible is read. And prior to that, just handling the Old Testament itself. Okay. And seeing how it is written. For example, I'm sure that for quite a number of believers that I know they initially would, rather than read the Old Testament, just read the epistles and say, well, whatever the epistles say is what the Old Testament is. So they usually have the challenge of just reading the Old Testament in itself.

But then the answer the question will now be when the epistles were written, the materials before the audience was the Old Testament. So if they did not have, as it were, a formula book. No, that's not the answer. An answer booklet by the side, which is the epistles, how come they were great spiritually, how come they pleased God, how come they walked in the Spirit is because their teachers, who are their disciplers, already told them and taught them how to handle the Old Testament. It is a result of that we find in the epistles. So which means that we can actually read the Old Testament. But that's most of the time the challenge is that when first of all, we know what is written.

We mentioned that yesterday about Ana Ginousko reading it again and again, which is something Matthew says So often they will say what was explained, which is where you look at the grammatical context, you look at the whether there are figures of speech written, what was what. What was the discussion about, you know, and all of that. When we get to the. Those parables of Matthew 22, 23, 24, 25, 20, you will see why a good number of people misapplied it. And if you notice that at the very beginning of this particular teaching, I said that one of the greatest injustices done to the Bible is the chapters and verses. You remember that very well. That's how I started, even though that's what I'm still using, you know. But I'm handicapped in that sense because there's nothing I can do at this point.

I can't start teaching you how to read the Bible without verses that will take us a whole year because some of you just be looking and say, what have we carried? What have you thrown at us? So it's better we take it gradually. But I know someday in the nearest future we are going to start reading Scriptures the way it was read, without having to use verses and break up God's Word the way we have been doing so that we don't become lazy readers in that sense. Even though I believe that those who did it not for evil purposes, by the end of the day it hasn't helped because it makes us lazy readers of Scripture and we just jump to conclusion because the verses themselves are jumping. So they help you jump into conclusion, verse one, verse two.

That's why I jump into conclusion by saying, for all I've seen and confession of glory of God. That's jumping to conclusion. But that statement context is from verse one, chapter one, and it is not understood till you get to Amen, chapter 16. So you can imagine how we read God's Word and we come to conclusions that it never made. So the verses themselves give you a conclusive end, or maybe the chapters, but it was not so written. In fact, let me add this. You know, I would say naturally that the Psalms of David were equally split up, but there's a high argument to that and I guess I'll prefer that later. So our ability to read the Gospel of Matthew, and we're going to move a bit fast because I want you to, you know, move quickly a bit fast.

Then we said yesterday that there's a way the Scriptures themselves are read. For example, if you look at the way Jesus taught the parables of the Sower, you know, and all of that, you discover that is usually how the Old Testament was written. And so first thing we did yesterday was to say the background of the Old Testament. You know, that context is not just about what was said before. We said that before. The context also has to do with the audience. And we said that if the audience of Jesus was a crowd of rebellious, hard hearted, as it were, people, then can we say the same thing of Genesis? We said yes, because Genesis was written to a people, one who are in exile, transiting, okay, to, as it were, the promised land, to a people who were equally rebellious and disobedient.

So that means the Genesis language will also be highly and heavily parabolic. Even the stories that were used will be heavily parabolic because you can use a true story that has true facts as a parable. Now, in Matthew 5, we're going to look at three things and three, because if we are disciples, like we said in Matthew, you need to know how the master taught. And yesterday I mentioned, for example, that we take the easier one. Then we go to the as it were, less easier. Now, one of the things that you see in Matthew 5, for example, is Jesus teaching and saying. Let's start from verse 50, verse 20. For example, you know, he had said in 17, I have not come to destroy the law, but to fulfill it. And earlier things he said, blessed are the merciful.

We have seen that he was teaching from the Old Testament when he said all of that. Now in verse 21, paramount 20, you have heard that it was said of them of the old time, thou shalt not kill. Whosoever shall kill shall be in the danger of the judgment. But I say unto you that whosoever is angry with his brother. Now notice that he uses this technique up till verse 43 and 44. That is you have heard Now I say to you now, if you read closely, whenever he says, you have heard, two things are embedded in that statement. One is the written word. That is what was written already. You find a quote in that instance, for example, in Exodus, chapter 20, verse 13, which is one of the. We call it the Ten Commandments. Then Deuteronomy 5 and 17.