Jew and Gentile. Ephesians 2:18, it says, 1 Spirit 2:19, 2:20, Galatians 3, 28. Neither male, not male, not female, neither born nor freed, neither Jew nor Gentile. First Corinthians 12, 13. This happens in the last Adam, Genesis 1:26, 28. So the feasts are meant to celebrate the Passover. So therefore it says in Romans 14:17, righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. Righteousness, peace and joy in the Holy Ghost. This is the kingdom of God. So all the feasts, whether it is the unleavened bread, which is also where they also is called the Passover or Pentecost or Tabernacles, they are all to celebrate the Exodus. I'm going to show you that shortly. They all have an eschatological implication, a predictive information. So the Passover is the basis of all the feasts.

And Paul is saying, if you eat food, doesn't make it good or better. The issue is not the food you are eating, is you accepting one another. If you choose to eat this, I choose to eat that. We must be accepted together, because that is the goal of the salvation plan. We are accepted one with another. Righteousness, therefore, is God making things right. So what has he made right? And what are the things that will oppose that? Righteousness, racism, tribalism, feminism, male chauvinism, A patriarchal system, materialism, legalism. So racism, tribalism, fame, feminism, non male chauvinism, things like homosexuality, materialism, legalism. Within the ecclesia, we begin to put things in the right place. So therefore, to read the Old Testament without the New Testament is to have a body without a head.

To read the New Testament without the Old Testament is a head without the body. What it means is this where you read the Old Testament? Put it down, please. The Old Testament is going somewhere. Where in the New Testament? The New Testament is coming from somewhere. So as you are reading the Old Testament, notice you are reading a journey. New Testament you are also reading a journey. One you read through the end of the journey, one you read the beginning of the journey. So the predictive study of the Old Testament must never be misplaced. Something we are going to explore is the similarity. In Genesis 15:6, where Abraham believed in the Lord, it was accounted to him for righteousness.

And Psalm 106, 30 and 31, where Phineas executed judgment, and so the plague was stayed, and that was accounted to him for righteousness unto all generations forevermore. They look like two contrasts. But it's like right living and right believing. Let's begin to put some things in perspective. So if there was a garden, a land in Genesis 2 and 3, and Abraham was promised a land, and that land in Genesis 1, verse 1 and 2 had the Spirit on it. Abraham also was given such a land. And Moses calls this land finished with nations. He calls it the Sabbath. Genesis 2, verse 1 to 3 finished. Which in the Hebrew is the word kalah K A L A. It means done to function fulfilled. Genesis 6:16. For us to know that it is not a canaan.

In Psalm 95 it talks about a rest was promised to enter into it. So therefore Abraham is used in scripture to be in the right or in what is right, as opposed to Adam. We must therefore look at the predictive nature of the promises made to him. The birth of Isaac, there sojourn in the land and all of that. The moment I don't read it primarily I read the history, I read the immediate events, I read the miracles involved, I read the actions. But I must read with the whole intent of a predictive nature. That's why they are called prophetic scriptures. So teaching in the Old Testament by prophets had a high level of prediction. So Genesis 3 says, get out of Eden. Which shows that God was out, or God was in, man was out, or man was in, God was out.

The promise would therefore be, when will man be back? Or let's say, when will God be back? Moses will cry out and say, show me your Havod to see your Panim. The incarnation that will lead to the resurrection. Something critical is that Jesus died at Passover. So Passover is it. If I understand the Passover, then all the feasts will make sense. Celebrate without sin. 11. Feast of New Beginnings Pentecost Where a law is given, the Spirit is within. The proof of it was speaking in tongues in Acts 2 tabernacles, where everything comes together and God begins to function amongst his people. All that is because an exodus has taken place. So I must understand. The land without the Spirit will not be the righteousness of God. And the Spirit without the land will not be the righteousness of God.

Which means it has to be the land and the Spirit. And hear me well, the land is the nations of the earth. So God's righteousness is one family found in the faithfulness of God and the faith of Abraham towards it. So being justified is my access into the family where what I have done is right. When I believe in God's righteousness, I am found in the family. So we cannot teach God's righteousness outside of this one nation church, one nation dream of God. Let's look at the feast one more time and try and put this session to close for last one. Exodus 12:4 42. It is a night to be much this observed unto the Lord for the bringing them out of the land of Egypt. That's the Passover.

That is the night of the Lord to be observed of all the children of Israel in their generations. Go to Leviticus 23, where all the feasts were mentioned. Verse 2. These are the only convocations. Verse 3. The Sabbath. Verse 4. All the verse 5. The Passover. The 14th day on the 15th day. 11. Bread. So they happened together. Verse 7, verse 8. So the feast I mentioned. Then you have the 49th 50th day, which is called Pentecost. Verse 1650 days. That's Pentecost. The offerings. Now look at the core of it. Verse 43. That your generations may know that I am the I made the Son of Israel to dwell in the booths when I brought them out of the land of Egypt. I am the Lord. So they are all to celebrate the Exodus, Leviticus 25, the Jubilee. Look at verse 42.

You are my servants, which I brought out of the land of Egypt. They shall not be sold as bond men. Verse 53. 55. For unto me two of Israel servants. They are my servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt, I am their Lord. So the feast has to celebrate that. So in John 7:39, all 37 to 38, Jesus stood and gave thee of the feast and cried out, whoever is thirsty, let him come to me. For the scripture has said out of his belly. Now when you hear his belly there coleus, something will come to mind straight away. Eve is supposed to be the mother, the womb of all the living. And Sarah was given of all nations. And then there's Isaac in the background. So the resurrection of Jesus is what was figured by the womb of Sarah.

So the womb of Eve was replaced with the womb of Sarah. If you like that won't be out of place. So the resurrection becomes that platform for the righteousness of God. So 39 and yeah, so God, we can say safely that God gave his law to Abraham. Can we also say that God gave his law to Adam? Yep. And when Adam broke it, Abraham did not. The Torah therefore is the exegesis of the law God gave to Abraham, the explanation in detail. Moses is like Paul, who goes into the details of the utterances, the oracles, and then begins to do an exegesis in his world. So justification cannot be properly explained outside God's righteousness, where he gave a promise for us to walk in. Justification, therefore is best explained that God gave a promise for us to walk in.

And that promise is a promise where all the nations of the earth are one spirit and one Lord. That is the righteousness of God. So if you read Romans 1:16 and you stop there and you don't read the entire naive to Romans 15 where Paul, let's see some things. Romans 15 you know the this is the if the book of Romans is a book of righteousness, then the understanding must be clear to us. Romans 12 Serve one another. Romans 13 Obey the laws of the land. Walk no heel to your neighbor. Romans 4 Accept people you know as long as they've had faith in the faithfulness of God and they are therefore welcoming the ecclesia of God. Romans 15 Anybody is weak, take it upon yourselves. Christ did the same then very critically.

Romans 15:8 is the minister of the circumcision for the truth of God to confirm the promises made to the fathers that the Gentiles might glorify God. The Gentiles. Verse 10 Rejoice ye Gentiles for his people. Verse 11 Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles, and loud all ye people. Verse 12 critical There shall be a root of Jesse. He shall rise to reign over the Gentiles in Him shall the Gentiles trust. Now the God of hope will fill you with all joy and peace indeed, that he may abound in hope through the power of the Holy Ghost. So what he has done here, he has concluded theology of the book in the practicality. At the end of the day, what we are saying is this is righteousness of God, Jew and Gentile.

Just like he made the promise to Abraham, just like what went wrong with Adam is now fixed in Jesus, who is the seed to whom the promises was made in Romans 16. As though he wants to play with facts, he now begins to talk about his Gentile partners in the work of the ministry. He mentions a couple of them show you that everything has come to a conclusion in the person of Jesus. So righteousness therefore should be expanded beyond being justified from sins. You have sinned, you no longer a sinner. It should come to what do we have access to now? Who now has access to? To me? And what has God brought back into the right? What is being put? What is the Sedeka? What is the Sedec? In view of the story of the Bible?

So like we said, the Old Testament is going somewhere. The New Testament is coming from somewhere. We'll start again.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/