But lions are used differently in New Testament Greek, for example. Of course, it's the word Leon L E O N. Then you have second Timothy, chapter four and verse seven or seventeen notwithstanding, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, that by me the preaching might be made fully known, and that all Gentiles might fear. And I was delivered out of the mouth of. Of the lion. See, the word lion there is used for persecutors or enemies. 1 Peter 5:8. Be sober, be vigilant, because you advance with the devil. As a roaring lion walks about seeking whom he may divorce. So lion is definitely figurative. Revelation 4:7, where he uses lion.

Of course, just Revelation 4:7, 5, 5, 9, 8, 9, 17, 10, 3 and 132 Revelation 4:7, Revelation 5:5 Revelation 9:8, Revelation 9:17, Revelation 10:3 and Revelation 13, verse 2 shows the lion as figurative. So Hebrews 11. So he therefore typifies. The wars are stopping the mouth of lions. Then he says, quench the violence of fire. Escaped the edge of the sword out of weakness were made strong. Pay attention. Somewhere, he says, waxed valiant in the fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens. Check the word Amish. You'll see why it is vital that you take note of this. It's the word paramboli. P R E M B O L e. You have 11 times in New Testament Greek and is used for a camp or call it barracks, what we call barracks today, a fortress of a military formation.

In the same Hebrews 13:11, the word paramboli is used where the writer says, for the bodies of those beasts whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burnt without the peremboli cup. Then verse 13, Let us go forth therefore unto him, without the Parambodi, that is, come bearing his reproach. So he therefore talks about the fortress, an army. Again, verse 34, he says, turn to flight the armies, which means talks about fight, which is the word battle. Literally means fight. I mean, basically again, when he says it turned to flight, there's a word klino, which means that's about seven. I mean, seven times is used in verse 34. It means to cost, to bow. To cost to bow. Okay, you can add to the camp the word parambul is. Or Revelation 29, just for further reference.

I said klino K L I N O, which means to cause, to bow. Literally. So it means exploits of war were commended. Then he says to turn to flight the armies or camps of fortresses or military formations of the aliens. Aliens. There is the Greek word allotrios, a double L O T, R I O, S used for others. Hebrews 9:25, Hebrews 11:9. In a strange country. In a strange country, which means another place. So it's clear that he is explaining the wars as actions of faith. That's a bit of a slippery ground, like I mentioned. But then you look at the context of that statement will be your 35 women received their dead, raised to life again. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment.

So he has switched from the wars to persecution. So that context shows you that the wars. Pay attention, please. The wars, even though they appeared offensive in some instances, were majorly defensive. I would explore that. It says others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment. Verse 37. They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins. God's kings, being destitute, afflicted, tormented, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts, he says, in mountains, in dens and caves of the earth. And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not promise. So look at the context that this is put. He has switched from those who seem to have the upper hand in battle to those who were at the receiving hand.

And so that is, again, like I said, a cause for thinking. Then it says they didn't obtain the promise, but what they did yet was through faith. So that means the context, really, eventually, by the time you look at the 35, 36, 37, maybe 34, you begin to view that there was a view in mind when those things were done. If you look at whether it's Rahab, whether it's Joshua, whether it's Moses, Abraham, that means everything had to do with a view in mind. So a view was in mind when those things were done. And it picks out individuals. He's not talking about a nation of people. That's why he mentions individuals. Because if he had used a nation of people, then there would have been a problem in the way we studied it.

Because he says in verse chapter 11, again, verse one, he says, now faith is the substance. Talking about the Old Testament, you look at the context of that is we are not of them that draw back. Hebrews 10:39 but those who believe to the saving of the soul talks about a more enduring substance in verse 34, reward that is eternal. 35 Then he says, faith is the substance hypostasis of things hoped for the electros evidence or convictions of things not seen. And then he says, so that means that we are going to see people who will carry out activities and deeds in the flesh, in the natural, in view of something that eyes hadn't seen.

Now what you're going to do, because we're going to come back on this on Monday after we have crossed some barriers today, what we're going to do is to reread Hebrews 11 and it will present for you two critical thinking points. Now you will find, for example Abel, who offered the very first person there is Abel, who offers offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. And yet we will not find any animal in view. Basically he's talking about what Abel did in view of Christ suffering and resurrection. Then you now discover that he will speak about an Enoch who was translated that he shouldn't see death. You now find out, okay, something was done about something that will be seen later. Then you also look at Noah who built an ark that wasn't salvation, but merely pointed to something different.

Then you go to Abraham's longest of the stories. And then Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. Then Joseph is mentioned. Then you hear about Moses and then the Exodus and then Joshua. Then within Joshua you have Rahab. Then the different persons mentioned. So which means that faith therefore will not be what they did, but what they believed. That's first thinking point. The second thinking point is to also see that the activities right where human, allow me use that phrase, human explanations or say interpretations of the acts of Christ. When you talk about the pragmaton, things hoped for, things not seen, that's something to think about. So the thinking points will be it's faith not because the actions were perfect, but it's faith because it was done in view of Christ.

Now something should readily come to your mind very quickly or three things in our study so far. You go to your Romans 14 and how somebody doesn't eat herbs, others eats all things. And Paul says here, fine, he might be weak in faith, Romans 14:1. But what he has done, even though we know that there's nothing impure of himself, but what he has done, not the herbs, not the eating of the herbs, but the persuasion and the devotion to God, Paul says, approved of God. So that shows you that certain actions might be imperfect. They will however, be justified because the actor believed God or believed his word. I hope you are following what I'm saying. Then you look at when Jesus spoke about the widow. The widow, for example, was going to cast all she had in the treasury of the temple.

Jesus says she's doing it out of oppression because this is wrong, this is manipulation, this is extortion. But he says she has cast in more than the rich. He commends her action. He commends her faith and devotion, even though what she did was under oppression. So for me, those are thinking points that will help us navigate through the context of the Old Testament. Like we all said in their own world, our world is very different now. And certain things that could have been justified then can be justified today because of our world. I hope you are following what I'm saying. Therefore you must have these two thinking lines, okay? The first is this is done by faith.

And I'm not going to be nobody going to ask you to build an ark anymore or to offer an Isaac in view of the resurrection or cross the Red Sea. But those things will stand as call it actions of people that were commended. Hebrews 11 and 2 elders obtained a good report. The word maturu is used press botorion. The elders of Israel obtain a good report by faith. And you know, the church is not asked to start fighting those wars or asked to build an ark, because that will be taking it out of context. You must go back to the context why those things were called diakosune. Who is following what I'm saying here? So you must restrict yourself to their world.

And then like we have said, when it comes to interpretation of Scriptures, the first thing is what's written, how is it explained? How's the explained? What is in the context? The context is both historical, theological, sociological. Couple of things come to mind. Then you look at the application. You take today's world. If you don't understand the first two, the third one becomes a mirage. You first will say what is written. Then you get your grammar correctly, you get your the use of words correctly, you get that in view, of course, study the scriptures in a wholesome fashion. Then you look at how is it explained, which I said would require more than just face value reading and going to a bit more of their world. And then having understood that, then you bring it into our world.

And then you have how Paul was able to write 2nd Corinthians 10, 3 and 4. So the basic thing is you're not asked to do this, you're not asked to not give away the spice. You're not asked to do that. But you are asked to look at why they did what they did. And so that means that a whole lot will come more into the why than the what. If you pay attention to the what, then you miss the context. And I mean, the last time we began to look at, I gave you an application. For example, some of you who are lawyers will know there's what is called the mens rea principle in criminal justice system, where you say, well, yes, I can see that he brought out a gun, okay?

And then you on the street, you say, he's a murderer, not a judge. You say, no. Why did he bring out a gun? The first thing is, did he get the gun legally? Yes, he did. In, in the world you are in, is it legitimate for you to have a gun? If you have a gun in Nigeria, you go to jail if you are not a military officer, and it's not for killing animals in the bush. And that has the kind of gun. If you have a gun in America, you can be licensed. So you can see this different worlds, you know. And so that's the first question. If it's illegally, if he got the gun illegally, then every other action is deemed illegal. So.

But if you got it legally and the state approves it, then he said, why did he bring out a gun? You said, no, he shot. No, hold on. Why did he bring out the gun? Oh, a guy pointed a needle at him. And you brought out a gun. Then he's. Can a needle kill? No. So therefore we look at the intention. Why do you bring. But they said, no, the guy brought out a dagger. Well, a gun and a dagger are twins. One just kills faster than the other. So then you say, well, that's self defense. Anybody who do that in any situation, I'm saying to you that the scriptures teach the same thing. You look at the guy that eats herbs, the guy that eats everything, the guy that won't eat everything. Then you say, well, why did he. Does he do it?

So why does he do it? Becomes vital. And Paul says, whatever is not of persuasion, faith, Romans 14:23, is sin. So therefore, we must therefore ask, what was the persuasion? Who is following what I'm saying here? And this is, you know, we're talking about wars, don't forget. And what was the persuasion? Why those things were carried away. Now, on the face value, you say they were ignorant. I will not use that card at this moment because that would be too simplistic a journey to embark upon. So let's say that if we therefore can walk through the minds of persuasion and you then ask the question, why did Jesus eat the Passover with his 12, you. You can go on and on. There was baptism. He didn't stop it. And then he was going to.