The very same person who says that now puts tattoo on his body because he just feels there's nothing that should regulate what I do or what I give. But we said that the law is in Genesis. So the law of Typhon is in Genesis, not as a percentage, but as honor. So the writer of Hebrews taught the honor principle because that is what the parable was meant to pass across. Do you understand what I'm saying? The honor principle. Respect, reverence, regard and all of that. So the danger of, oh, they handle the Old Testament wrongly. Can also lead to danger of forget the Old Testament altogether. Which has a graver problem. In the second century. What is that like A.D. hundred thereabouts. There's a doctrine called the Gospel of Marcion.

M A R C I O N. Marcion is known to be a rich sheep owner. He now began to embrace some heresies saying that listen carefully to this. The New Testament was superior to the Old Testament. As we have seen. No apostle taught that and said that the New Testament and the Old Testament cannot be found in the same canon. Massion said only the writings of Paul particularly should be found in Scripture. Eventually was excommunicated. But as it often happens, they go and create a denomination Saul had called what he said. And in our minds, we accept it as is a dispensation that God is not doing that again. That we are now in the dispensation of grace. It has shades of Marcionism. Okay, that's gone. This is here. Yet there is the Old Testament that validates the New.

So of course I must concede that it's not all that preach dispensation doctrine that are mationites. But the truth is that there is a similarity. Marcionites would naturally preach the Bible is in dispensations. This is the time of religious is no longer the time and all of that. And they reject the Old Testament. By rejecting the Old Testament altogether, you will eventually say the words of Christ are not true. So and this is why we have to be careful of what is before the cross, what is after the cross. We rather should shape it as to who is before the cross, who is after the cross. Because the Messiah does not change before and after the cross. We mustn't treat the Old Testament like an invalidated book. How would you sustain the Old Testament that abrogated using Paul.

When Paul exhaustively taught the Old Testament, whether It's the Acts 13 teaching or Acts 26 or Acts 28, 22, 23, he taught from Moses and the prophets. Romans 16, 25, 26, the prophetic scriptures, Galatians 3. One whose eyes before whose eyes just every set forth and crucified which is was written a fourth time as crucified or Colossians 4:3 the mystery. Colossians 2, 2 and 3, the mystery. Referring to the Old Testament or is it 1st Corinthians, the Old Testament quoted copiously by Paul or 2nd Timothy 3:16? There's no way you can say Paul's letters is not the teaching of the Old Testament. Paul also makes distinctions in the law in Romans 3. We've seen it before 30 and 31. There's a law of works, there's a law of faith, there's a law of God and all of that.

When Paul teaches circumcision, it is from the Old Testament. Circumcision of the heart. Romans 2:29 is quoting Jeremy 30. It's critical to also know that sin is sin. Have you heard people that say sin is dead? Some will say sin is because of the law. I don't understand what that means. How can the law be what? Let's assume that the law is what punishes sin. How can the law is what creates sin? It doesn't make any kind of sense. Romans 5:13. Before the law, sin was in the world. Romans 5:12. Through one man, sin entered into the world. In Romans 3, 30 and 31, Paul says I establish the law.

So in the bid to run away from the legalism and the fatal interpretation of the Calvinists or the Reformed theologians, men have run towards the Messianic thinking the Old Testament is not in force. And that will lead us to a teaching we have to do soon on what is the Old Testament. I know we have taught it. I've explained it already in Paul's identification. But it's time to bring it out as a teaching. What is the Old Testament? Many people think the Old Testament is Genesis to Malachi. And they are wrong. Because the New Testament was a promise given to Abraham. And it is because of that promise that Moses went to Egypt to set Israel free. The New Testament is that Exodus is in Leviticus by the Spirit of God.

In First John 3 you see the word, the law seen to transgress against the law cannot be the laws of moons, the laws of ceremonies. It has to be the law of Faith. In Romans 8, Paul talks about from the same Old Testament books, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus and the law of sin and death. So a messianic thinking is equally dangerous. I saw a man say God never spoke in the Old Testament, that only angels spoke. Imagine saying they never knew God in the Old Testament. All those careless statements. Yes, you can talk about the vessels and their weaknesses, the level of comprehension, which is very true, just like the vessels in the Old New Testament as well. But those statements must be made in careful ways. Let me add more.

In Matthew 22:36 through to 38, 39 and 40, Jesus. Jesus says what hangs the law and the prophet, love the Lord your God and love your neighbor as yourself. Something Paul wrote in Romans 13:10 and Galatians 5:14 through to 15. So it's very clear that was more the Old Testament more than the law of Moses. There was more in the writings of Moses more than the law of Moses. Let me say that again for clarity. There was more things in the Old Testament than the law of Moses. There was more in the law. Sorry. There was more in Genesis to Deuteronomy than the law of Moses. So it's oftentimes believed. And this is what has made many atheists, or what we can call liberal theologians. A liberal theologian says, well, the Old Testament should not be inherent, is not perfect.

We should just say it. People have argued it is it. And this is why we have to be careful on the concept of the Bible is not the word of God. I know in my earlier days, I'll say it just not minding whose ox is God these days. I'll say it in a careful way. You know, the summary of everything is God's word. Okay, but then we have to now make decision. What did God say? What did a man say? The conclusion of everything is God's word. So you have to be very careful because people oftentimes Will know what you mean. And a ridiculous listener will take your statement to the next level. We're still doing the law in Genesis.

A guy took the teaching and said there was no God in the Old Testament that God spoke to Adam and Eve by angels, to Abraham by angels, and all of that. So I asked him, was the Spirit of God do anything in the Old Testament? He said, no, you cannot have the Holy Ghost without Jesus say, clap for yourself. So who inspired the writing? I said, well, God did. By who said by angels. How do you think that way? That's a psychiatric case. So you have a major challenge in not being found in any way denigrating the Old Testament. The Old Testament is not legalism. The Old Testament is God's word. So we have to be careful of in order to avoid the bully, evil picture of God in the Old Testament. We now run to leave the Old Testament, abandon it.

The epistle is where you find God and the epistles found God in the Old Testament. Why have I gone to this length? Because at the root of all of Satan's activities in the earth today is to attack God's word. If you allow the Old Testament to be attacked, it is God's word that is being attacked. It mustn't be attacked. Rather it must be studied, as we have seen. Just like, you know, we said that in Job's case. I don't know why I skipped Job. In the next session, we said, Job becomes a classic prototype of how to read the Old Testament. Read the images. Well, when you see conversations, for example, those conversations can just be literary techniques how Jesus himself. But would that be right?

Jesus equally in his parables, created conversations that are not fictitious but are fiction, where he brings out the thought of a man, it personifies the thought of a man, it personifies disobedience, it personifies forgiveness, uses human activities to explain forgiveness. So the same way the book of Job uses that narrative. I said that to us the other time, where you find God and Satan conversing. The truth of the matter is that you find a man's ignorance and the knowledge of God. That's what you find in that, you know, scenario. So we mustn't therefore in any way. Okay, I will say that. Okay, I say this, that what was God's response? He didn't say, I didn't do it. Eliu just said, as touching the Almighty, he will not afflict. That's all Elihu said. And then he said, where were you in Genesis?

So we said God's response to job was Genesis 1 to 3. So we'll keep going back there. They say in Yoruba culture, in if you don't know where you are going to, you know where you are coming from. Where did sin come from? Romans 5:12, Genesis 3. Where did unbelief come from? Romans 5:12, 14. Where did disobedience come from? Romans 5 Where did evil come from? Genesis. So you will always require the Genesis understanding. That's why I took the time to explain concept of sin. I hope that was clear. Sin concept, was it clear? I think it's in this gospel. Huh? It's in this gospel. Was it clear? Okay, so the next session I'm going to take an interaction. Let me know a feedback from you what you. I mean, see what areas we need to address.

Because like I said, the Old Testament defended is God defended. And so we mustn't neglect to properly interpret scriptures. Now it is believed, for example, that this lack of study is prevalent amongst Jewish different dominations, including evangelicals, even those who are fundamentalists, charismatics, Pentecostals and all what have you. It means therefore that we must allow, we said that on Sunday, the Bible to interpret itself. And we said the context of scriptures is the Scriptures. All the scriptures explain all the Scriptures. All the scriptures explain all the scriptures. So let me say this, you know, quickly, before I go to something else. Whenever you want to teach God's word or you want to write it, ask yourself, what is the interpretation that you seek to pass across? What do I mean now? Am I using grammar, context, the world?

Am I looking straight at theology of it? Am I addressing unbelief? I must know the different characteristics of my interpretation. Why is this important? Because we must handle scriptures well. In second Peter 3, 16, 17, Peter writes about some folks who now look at the things he says he did. He said the unstable unlearned. He said they rest the scriptures, or as they do the letters of Paul, as they do the other scriptures. So which means that it is possible to rest the scriptures. It is possible to twist it. The next statement he says, I think we often don't read verse 17, second Peter 3. You therefore beloved, see you know these things before. Beware, lest you also being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. Peter says you must be steadfast. Second Peter 3, 15, 17.

Talk about beloved Paul, who in all his epistles wrote some things that some are hard to be understood, which some. It says that our unleaded unstable rest, as they do also the other Scriptures that is twisting Paul's letters is twisting the Old Testament and vice versa said, but you now should beware, lest you are led away with the error of the wicked. So from the Calvinism theory that says God in a way ordained and decreed sin to the sin, is there people that say there was no sin at all, or to the great concept that will say, well, that was the law. This is the New Testament or to whatever ones. Either way, the question we should ask ourselves is, did we teach the truth of God truthfully?

If I would not take the patience to interpret the context of statements in the entire body of Scriptures, I should not be found teaching the Scriptures at all. In Matthew 13, 9, 19, we saw that the enemy who blinds how does he blind? If you look at Second Corinthians 4, 4, the God of these words that blind the minds of them that believe not you discover that in Second Corinthians 3:14 where he says, when Moses is read, there is a veil upon their hearts. And the Greek shows that something they did of their own accord because they didn't understand. So a lack of understanding of God's word gives room for the enemy or the enemy at work. We must therefore present God in the light of the Old Testament properly. We read it earlier. In thy light we have found light. Jeremiah 9:24.