But again you ask them the question, should you not see a lesson in humility rather than an arrogant creator, somebody who can become his own creature and then leave himself harmless in the hands of a creature that he could have, you know, in his sovereignty, as we call it, vested much power against, but he didn't do it. So which means that in the offense of the cross for the intelligent person comes in a contradiction. If God is proud, how did he die? If he died, why is it an offense? To you that a great man could die a cheap death. This is why the unbeliever would definitely go to hell. Because what you are battling is your selfishness and self delusion. And looking at the fact that the cross already explains why we praise God. Now let's look at it.

If we can praise him for what he has made with his hands, how much more for the death on the cross? So therefore God is not praise hungry. Where? Oh, all he wants is praise. All he wants is this, all he wants is that no, he's actually praised worthy. The other conclusion is say he doesn't exist. And to say it doesn't exist will be a contradiction also in the heart of those who say it doesn't. Hope you are learning something. So the offense of the cross is if he's great, why did he die? But we're saying the greatness is in that thing. Then it becomes contradictory in the heart of the man who says he just praise hungry. He's not praise hungry, he's praiseworthy. Secondly, why is he so called? Oh, was that clear to you? Was that clear to you?

Why is he so called jealous? What I've simply done for you is to use human principles. Do you understand it? To explain why we praise God so, which means humanity itself has embedded religiosity. We thank each other, we believe we owe one another certain things, whether it's our parents, our friends. So we look back and then if we think more, then we'll say, if somebody has done what is good, we commend him. So if it is God, it means it's equally praiseworthy. Now, calling him a jealous God, then you find people who would refer to God in that context. Then here comes the contradiction also where we now find out that jealousy is a sin or is a work of the flesh. And I said the Old Testament calls God a jealous God. Again, this is basically just grammatical in 2 Corinthians 11.

Where Paul talks about jealousy in a positive light. I am jealous over you with godly jealousy, for I have exposed you to one husband that I may present you as a chaste virgin in Christ. So Paul situates jealousy within the marital institution. If, for example, okay, don't let me go further on that. But in the marital institution, that is, he uses jealousy here as protective. But then our challenge, usually with the word jealous or jealousy, is how words are used. The word jealousy or jealous is from the Greek word zeno Z E L o. In Acts 7, 9 you find jealousy used negatively. The word zilo. Acts 7 and 9 There you have the jealousy of the brothers of Joseph. Acts 17:5, I.e. Those who persecuted now that's different. But at that same word in 1 Corinthians 13:4 says love is not jealous.

Then James 4:2 talks about the same thing. But the word in itself, zilo, means to be affectionate about something, or to be desirous of something, or to seek to protect something, or to seek to have something. Now, interestingly, the same Greek word used in 1st Corinthians 12:31 desire earnestly the best gift 1st Corinthians 14:1 same thing the gifts of the Spirit or in the Spirit 1st Corinthians 14:39 covet to prophesy 2nd Corinthians 11:2, the one we just read and Revelation 3:19 be zealous. So the same word used for zeal is used for jealousy. Same Greek word in Galatians 4, verse 3 and 17. Paul uses it both negatively and positively. So therefore the word jealous, which is left in the old translation that way, could mean negative affection for or positive affection towards.

Where it is negative, it is for self where it is positive, it is to protect the other party. Where it is positive it is to use something positively and properly. Where it is negative is to abuse it. This is within today's world and the New Testament language. Jesus will say bezealous, repent, and bezealous Revelation 3:19 that word is from the word zeo Z e O Acts 18:25 used there for the man Apollos Romans 12:11 be fervent in spirit fervency we'll come to this John 2:17 the zeal of my Father's house has consumed me, whereas it also comes out negative. Acts 5:17 Acts 13:45 Romans 13:13 2nd Corinthians 12:20 Galatians 5:20 works of the flesh Philippians 3:6 is positive.

Paul says he was zealous of the law Hebrews 10:27 James 3:14 and 16 negative it's positive in Romans 10:2 zealous but your zeal was without knowledge. 2Nd Corinthians 7:7 2 Corinthians 7:11 2 Corinthians 9:12 so the word jealousy, if you were to translate it, you may need another word depending on the context. Where it is positive is used for zeal for another zeal or passion for another where it is negative. That's why it's positive. Where it is negative it is passion against or selfish passion to satisfy yourself. Oh, you are for me and me alone. Somebody else can have you in that instance it becomes negative or you know where it is to please self. You know, I guess I mixed mundled that up. Interestingly, the Old Testament use of the word jealous falls in this same category.

You will need to read the context of that statement. When God is called a jealous God, is he still a jealous God? Yes, he is, because we have seen right now. Sorry, is he still a jealous God? Is that jealousy still today applicable? Yes, it is. Was it a wrong use of words? No, it was not. It's just a question of explaining what it means now. In Exodus 3:14 the Hebrew word for the word jealous is the word kwanah qa na in Exodus 34 and verse 14. For thou shalt worship no other God. For the Lord whose name is jealous is a jealous God. What do you mean? Let's see. Exodus 20, verse 5. Thou shalt not bow thyself to them, nor serve them. For I the Lord thy God, I am a jealous God.

Visiting the iniquities of the fathers upon the children, upon the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and showing mercy to thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Again, if you miss the visiting iniquity part, which is the walpower card, you miss everything he was talking about. You think the jealousy is selfish? Well, the jealousy here is protective is a merciful jealousy that is such jealousy that exists in families and exists between a husband and a wife. Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 24. For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. Notice again that the context of this is talking about graven images and idol worship. So when you read Hebrews 12:29, our God is a consuming fire.

And then the writer of Hebrews who has been able to explain this text has it in the fact that God consumes what stands against us in his fervent love. And the next statement is therefore let us serve God with acceptable and godly fear. Our God is a consuming fire. Then he says, let brotherly love continue. So that means the love of God is that jealous nature, that affectionate part of God is what is referred to as jealousy. Deuteronomy 5:9 oh, that's what we read earlier. That's just a repeat of that. Exodus 20, Deuteronomy 6:15 that God is a jealous God among you, lest the anger of God that God be clean against thee and destroy thee from the face of the earth. Again, those are things that we're going to still seek to explain. So notice that when this phrase is Used.

It is used as touching idol worship. Then you have the word queena, where this is derived from Q I, N, A H, where you have it 44 times in the Hebrew language. And pay attention, please. It's used for zeal. Numbers 25:11, 2nd Kings 10:6 again, Numbers 25:11, 2nd kings 10:6, 2nd kings 19:31, Psalm 69, verse 9, which is in John 2:14. The zeal of my Father has consumed me. I misquoted that earlier in John 2:17. I'll come back to that. Psalm 119, verse 139, Isaiah 9:7. The zeal of the Lord shall perform this. So the word jealousy, I think, is a translator's issue, should have been left as zealous. I am passionate or I am passionate about you. It rather describes God's love or protection, not God's selfish. What should I call it? Possessive.

You know, you can have, you know, there's not being possessive and being jealous in a positive way. Where you are concerned about someone, not for your sake. You are concerned. Yeah. And the concern is for the person and not against the person. So we have the word kwana, another word, which is a verb 33 times. So it refers to. And because both of them are affection, whether it is negative or positive, they are both affectionate. They are both passion. So it's a mistranslation to call it jealousy. If I'm to translate today, I will say, I am a zealous, passionate God. And the question be passionate about what? Passionate about love. Passionate to love you, to guide you and to protect you. God wants you. Jealousy. No, affectionate passion, which is to protect you and to guide you. So that jealousy is protective.

Is God still to be referred to as a jealous God? Yes, but explain it by saying, I mean passionate, loving, who has unconditional mercy towards others. Why would this be well explained? Why would this apply? Because right there in the Old Testament, Please follow this. God is described as a parent. So think about a jealous parent. It's described as a husband that's explanatory, as a shepherd and also as a mother, ego. So it is within that context that he is called jealous. A jealous parent will be one that you hear, is concerned about how his son or daughter gets to school and how they don't get to the hands of. If you say, oh, why is this man always bringing his son to school? He is possessive. No, he is protective. Why does she not want someone else to carry a child?

She is possessive. No, she is protective. Do you understand that? So the idea of God being jealous is his protective nature, which is passionate. He described as a parent, a husband, a shepherd, a mother, ego. In Isaiah 54, 5, he is called a husband. So if in human existence we do not. We don't in human interactions we are not averse to a husband being that protective of a wife. He said, the maker is thy husband. Lord of hosts is his name, Thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, the God of the whole earth shall he be called by the time we read Hosea 2? Hosea 2 gives us the parable of a husband and his wife, and that was to depict God's love for humanity, God's love for Israel, actually.

Then you find Hosea 3 and says to him, Verse 1, Go love a woman beloved of our friend. Yet an adulteress, according to the love of the Lord towards the children of Israel. He looked to other gods and loved flagons of wine. So he describes himself as a passionate husband who of an adulterous woman. Now, in the sense of that means the reason why he's that loving or jealous as you care, is because he acts like a husband of an unfaithful wife. Jeremiah 3:14. All right. O turn backsliding children, says the Lord, for I am married unto you. I'll take you one of the seed and two of your family, and I'll bring you to Zion, for I am married unto you. Jeremiah 31:32 Ezekiel 16:88. So the marriage analogy is an Old Testament technique of explaining God's relationship to Israel and of us.

To us. That marriage analogy is where the jealous God nature is situated. So it's in relationships that if I'm your husband, then I am passionate about you. If I'm your dad, I am passionate about you. If I'm your friend, if I'm your shepherd, then I'm passionate about you. Don't forget again that Moses opens up the narrative of God's relationship. The very first relationship that Moses explains uses to explain God's union is marriage. Genesis 2:18 and Genesis 2:24. It's not good for man to be alone. Let us make him a help meet the word aza, which deals with somebody who to referred rescues you. And he uses marriage to explain it that which protects the other person. In Genesis 24, he calls it one flesh. So in Hebrews 3.