What is exactly going to happen in the last day? What is the fulfillment? Is an ecclesiology to gather together. And in the Exodus, there was a gathering together of people where all nations, just like Genesis 1, 2 and 3, will be found in the light of gospel. So that is the end product of it. In ecclesiology. Also, God is in his people and he is with his people. So the first thing we said is the teacher will confront what's a unifier. Unifier is faith and unbelief. Unifier is Christology. Christology, Faith and unbelief. Christology, Unifier. The need for salvation, the need for a savior. And that savior is the Christ. And this is how he does it, this is when he does it, this is to whom he does it. Unifier.

You find that in all the 39 books of the Old Testament, in their prophecies, in their warnings, in their instructions, in the promises. Promises, you know, scattered around. Figurative expressions. Then. So the first is faith and unbelief. Believing. So the Bible is a theology. There is no. We said yesterday, I quoted Professor Schwartzer that you defeat the entire story of a book if you take it just as historical and not as a book of persuasion. It's a book for persuasion, where we are called to believe. We are called to believe. So I will find in the 39 books a call to believe. Now, there are different phrases that will elicit believing. There is obey, there is do. If you go to. If you look at our book, Word of Faith, we're going to upgrade it in the next few months.

We looked at the Old Testament and where our belief lies. You won't find the word belief like that. You'll find words like a man, Hebrew words like that to do, to believe, to trust, to follow. You know, different phrases, showing you if you follow not, after, if you obey, not. So it's the first thing the teacher will identify the place of. Now, in today's world, I would not use obey like they would do. I will not use eid, I'll use believe, faith, you know, terms like that, you know, and all that. So that's the first thing. The second we said is the soteriology, sorry, Christology, the need for a savior and the Christ, a chosen person, a deliverer, Messiah, who carries out. So you. You take that Christology into what I broke down for you just now. Pneumatology, soterology, pneumatology.

That's Christology into new mythology. Sorry, new mythology. Eschatology, when it is done, and ecclesiology to whom it is done. For so the third unifier will be Moses and the prophets. Moses and the prophets. That's already obvious. That means that what is common. What is common, for example, from the book of Joshua to Malachi are the writings of Moses. Is the common denominator. There was no one. Even songs of Solomon and Esther that appeared like, oh, Esther, they didn't mention God. Some people, you know, have issues with that. But you observe that Esther also talked about a nation. So if you. The moment you say a nation, where did that nation come from? They were not a nation in Genesis. They were a nation in the Exodus. Are you following what I'm saying here?

So by that already has shown you a pattern in Moses and all the prophets. So Moses are not prophets. I think you can see now why Moses singled out. So you have. What is it called? Is Moses and all the prophets. So that unifies. That is the link bridge unifier of the two worlds. Allow me use that phrase. The Old Testament and the New Testament world, not our own world. Now time of Jesus and the apostles. So here is Jesus on the road to Emmaus. This is what he's doing. He's doing what you and I. I said to you yesterday, every time you mount the pulpit to teach, okay, you are interpreting, you are translating. You are doing what Amplified has done. You are doing what KJV has done. You are doing what NIV has done.

You are simply bringing the truth of the world to your world. The language which I speak now was not in Genesis. The language I spoke now was not even spoken 500 years ago anywhere. Because the English language has developed. The language I speak now was not spoken by Jesus. Language I speak now was not spoken by Paul. So right now I am interpreting. I will now interpret wrongly or rightly. And so which means that in the dia menu of Luke 24, so the first language looking at the multilayer will be now in a diamond. Diamond is about language, no doubt. But that means the first language is the faith language. Okay, then the language of salvation or the Savior.

So you must go to the Old Testament to find out what is the language for the Messiah, The Christ, then his salvation, then themes of his salvation, then the work of his spirit. Right? So the language of faith and unbelief in God, the Christ, and then the common language of all Moses and all the prophets. What I just did now, I said, you will not find the mention of God even in Esther. But you have a nation. That's a language, a common denominator, same as Songs of Solomon, same thing as all the other books. There's a common language. Either a nation, a promise, a land, a people deliverance, exile, dictatorship, you know, escape from tyranny. You see, a common theme, diamond you. Now, furthermore, it means therefore there's also the language as to the mode of communication. Now look at this.

It therefore suffices that there is no way you can be a teacher of God's word without a basic understanding of Greek and Hebrew. Hope that's clear now. It's not possible now. I mean, I remember just. I was just thinking as I was coming up, okay, when we go to school, for example, those of us who schooled in Nigeria, I don't want to believe some people didn't school in Nigeria. You know, it was a compulsory course to pass English Language. In fact, if you are going to do your postgraduate anywhere, they will say a basic understanding of English. Do you know why it is so. So either way, when you learnt in school, you also had to learn English. Why? Because that is the mode of communication of all the books.

So to now, you know, as interesting as it is, no matter how intelligent a lecturer will appear when we're in school, the moment his use of English is not so interesting, something affects the lecture. Now, it's not possible that he doesn't know English language. He would know English language, but just the lack of finesse about it will almost discourage you. Why? Because the subjects are transmitted in that language. You need not be an excellent orator, but at least know the basic language with which the book is written. This is not. I know that the fact that I learned English language in my. Well, I wasn't in any crch. Crch is a new word. Yeah, you move to nursery school, to primary school, you know, it doesn't mean that at the end of life you will come and claim a degree in English language.

But you can speak it, you can communicate it. That's what we are doing now. You know, you can communicate English because that is the mode by which now it will become useless if you are in China and you are learning English, but the moment you move from China to Nigeria, you know, you probably have to learn English. It's not something they even ask sometimes some nations where they want to give you a visa. So which means that the fact that you learnt English in School is able to comprehend the books and also explain. Doesn't mean that you are a G in English language. No, you just can speak it, you can read it, you can understand things. Eventually you became an engineer, a doctor, a lawyer, which is not mastery of English language, but you have the basic understanding.

So they ask you to have at least a C6 and all of that. That even if you are going to study, I don't know any course that anybody studied. That they said, even if you have F9 in English, come, I don't know any course like that. So they will say basic. Understand? Why? Because that is the way the books are written. So you are therefore compelled, as a teacher of God's word, to know Greek and Hebrew. Basic ones, of course, some people will now make it a major. They will say they will not start learning all the syntax, they will not start learning the case. The case, the subject, the object and all of that. You don't need all of that. If it comes in useful, fine, but you don't. It's just the basic things, the way it's written.

For example, what we said now about the mode of communication. If I say alos, paracletos or paracletos, for example, look at the word alos, Same. Comforter. Yet the Greek word has etheros, same. Yet in today's language it is different and one of a kind. So you are compelled to check it. Now, we've been helped by versions that have brought it closer home. But like we said yesterday, every translation has the bias of a translator. So you are also still compelled to check it. So you have a duty to ensure that you cross the language barrier. So the first in that menu is grammar. Grammar. You must know the basic things. You must know the basic things in the Hebrew language or Hebrew writing. Were they using paragraphs? No, they read in the ancient tradition of the scriptural continuum. You keep reading, you keep reading.

Anaginosco, you read intelligently. So the grammar. Let me take it again so that you don't get confused. We said that what are the unifiers? The unifiers is faith and unbelief, Christology, which we broke down into all sorts of study. Then we also have Moses and the prophets. So now I am talking about Moses and the prophets. That is, everyone who wrote the epistles had to understand the grammar. They have to know that grammar. Even if you are going to eventually teach us in English. If a mode of communication information is in French, you must learn French or at least have a translation that deals with it. So the grammar of the law and the prophet must be understood. And this is why I believe a lot of translations have issues. The grammar must be understood. And in that grammar and grammar is not.

So it's not a tea party. Sometimes grammar requires meditation. It requires at times to have other books. For example, when we are going to explain the concept, if you look at our series of great salvation, the way were able to deconstruct the tulip, for example, of the Calvinist, which I think is one of the greatest errors in the body of Christ, the tulip, the total deprivation and all of that. Precisely. The predestination of foreknowledge was to look at other materials, since it's a language. And we said that it was a mistrust of a word that built an empire. Allow me that word. An humongous doctrine. And we said that within the Greek or precisely the Hebrew, the concept of fatalism, predestination does not exist.

So if there is nothing like that in the Hebrew, the moment it is not present in Hebrew language, it means that the word was mistranslated. And we saw it in the context of the Hebrew Bible that there was nowhere God's word did not have conditions from the book of Genesis. Okay, so the language, I get it, right? The moment the language is not sorted, forget it. You, you would. You have a lot of mishaps. So that is the grammar part. You solve it by the grammar part. Now the second issue which we will explore is equally the context. I know yesterday we looked at the issue of permissive tenses and the consecutive tenses. And I said that so that you don't get careless. You know, that doesn't end your work, it actually just starts it. There is now the context.

So you will have to resolve the context, you will have to resolve the history. So you become a grammarian, as a teacher, you become a historian. Because the Bible is history, all right? But it's not a historical book. History, times, periods, what happened? You cannot remove the event from theology. And the moment you remove the event from theology, you are building something or nothing. And the moment you remove theology from the history, okay, from the history, you are not using the book appropriately. So you must combine theology and the history. So you have context and history. And then you have that hefty task of bringing it into your own world. So Jesus on the road to Emmaus was able to show them that you guys, Cleopas and your friend, you are both in an exile position, just like Israel in Egypt.

They are world, my world. You are not in Egypt, you are here in Jerusalem, but you are in exile. Just like they needed a deliverer, you need one too. And this has been written in the law and the prophets. So the unifier will be faith and unbelief Christology, which we broke down into bits and pieces. And then you have Moses and the prophets, which you just explained in the grammar, in the context, in the history, and then bringing it into today's world. So now let's look at an example of what a New Testament writer will have to do, knowing that the Hebrew culture did not make the causative, volitive and permissive sense so clear. He will have to find out. And the way he will find out is context and history.