Having come to Egypt, it's just like you go into a country and you live there, and you live Nigeria, stayed in Europe. Let me put like this. You, you were in your village and your village is Orafia, and you were there for 10 years. Then you had to go to Europe, where you are now speaking predominantly English. Now, the truth is, you will equally know your language. I mean, the Jews were very particular about their language, you know, equally know your language, which of course, when we say Jews, let me say that very well. You had Hebrew, which was what Abraham was, and the Hebrews generally were in the Palestine, the Middle east and all of that Near Eastern culture.

So very crossed over then from Jacob became Israel, you know, that specific nation and you know, bring it down to the Jews, the one circumcised and all that. So there's a bit of distinction there. So the Hebraism, therefore is not like something Abraham created. It's just a culture he came with. And they had the modes of communication and all of that. So he wouldn't have that barrier of language. Okay, I'll tell you where the barrier will come. But you have barrier of language. Now if you cross to Egypt, that means that Moses will not have to do what he will have to be like Paul, have two language platforms or cultural platforms, Hebrew. And now that has transformed into Israel because there are two. Then he will now have the Egyptian mode of education and communication.

So that means that just like we said yesterday that God's word is man's words, God's word is communicated in man's language. So he will equally. Now, unlike Abraham, okay, He will now also have the language barrier to cross. That is the ability to put what is said in the Hebrew mode of communication, in the Egyptian mode of communication, vice versa. And that's why you discover that you won't find temple in Genesis, all those things, mode of worship. You will find offering of animals, which again is a Near Eastern fact. And the moment. Why did they offer sacrifices? Because in the promise of God was going to give a sacrifice. So they did that, you know, to have a feel of what will happen eventually when they smelt it. That is what God will do to the fact that if he.

That sacrifice that he has given and given to us to solve man's immediate problem, which was sin, it will be the one that he will smell. The smell there is figurative Ephesians 5:1, 2, sweet smelling, save all Hebrews 13, 5 and 6 and all of that. So when they did that again, their culture will come to play at that point and as we said in the earlier series, that God had to gradually take them away from their culture, all right? To the culture of the spirit. The Lord was a schoolmaster until Christ. Do you get it? The Lord was our schoolmaster until Christ. So you see all of that to come clearer now here. Moses will definitely have to face that. He will now have to bring it together, the worship of God and use, you know, the idol template, the temple template.

There's, there's a document I have here. I, I'm trying to see how I'm going to compress it and just. I, I'll try to see what I do to just give you a few notes there. I know by the time we put down the book, we'll have it in more written manner. So now that will mean that every teacher from Moses will have to interpret. And so they will have to interpret God's word which has been communicated in man's words in another world to, in the words of their audience in their own world. God's word which has been communicated. I mean, ask this question, what language did God speak with Adam? They now say Cain and Abel. They now say Noah or Enoch, Noah, Abraham. So you begin to see that all along it will be man's language.

So it comes down there and then you now take it in the language, okay? And the world, then you now communicate it to the world and the language that you live in. Let me show you what I'm saying here. You get that? So that is one. So let's go to Jesus's days. So Jesus's days also there was Aaron, Mike, there was coining Greek. And equally the Hebrew tongue, when you hear Abba, for example, is Aramaic. And equally the Hebrew tongue, when you hear, for example, Sabachtoni, that is another tongue. So now, and Jesus not being literate, this is one of the things where I said, this guy is not victory. How is he able to do this? So the first barrier, therefore, okay, let's take it one by one. So on the road to Emmaus, let's look at the different footnotes or landmarks.

The first is that when he said, oh, fool, slow of heart to believe all that the Prophets have spoken. So the first one of the work of the teacher is to confront the faith or unbelief issues. Now what I mean by that is we know, we said yesterday that the Bible is a persuasion book. So the first issue is there is persuasion. So Jesus equally confronted unbelief. Now is there anything strange that is that unique to Jesus? No, it's not. Because we said that Moses also had that kind of audience and definitely Ezra and Nehemiah and all of them. So the audience, faith and unbelief. Now the second one will be. That is the first thing that I want you to classify this very well. So we in teaching, okay, let me take that back. We're looking at the unifiers.

So the unifier is what unifies that world, okay? And the world of Jesus, let's even stretch it. The world of Paul, who went to the Gentile nation and all of that. What unifies one faith? Abraham believed in God, Genesis 15:6. Faith will unify it. So I look at the common faith in God, the audience unbelief. So a teacher of God's word will go to his authority, the Scriptures. Then he will unify his audience and that audience, where my audience is a believing audience, I will unify it. In my writing, where it's also a doubting audience, I'll unify it. I will confront it the same way. Do you understand what I'm talking about? So I'm coming from that world to my world. What will be common, what is common is faith and unbelief. Do you get that? Do you get that? Do you get that?

Okay, we are looking at what the bridge between the Old and New Testament. The second, I'll put faith and unbelief together. The second is the Christology of that theology. That is the focus is Christ. We said that there is no way you can read the Old Testament. Now if you have an unbelieving nation and you also have a non believing nation, you have an exiled nation, which is the predominant context of the entire Old Testament. And we said that the term Messiah is not a spiritual language. It's any deliverer. It's both in its a lone language, any deliverer. So that means that if these situations, therefore if these situations prevailed in the world, it prevailed in the world of Moses, in the world of the prophets, and even in the four Gospels. It means that the unifier will be a messiah.

So that already lays the foundation of a Christology, a unifier. The unifier therefore is a messiah. Did they need a deliverer? Yes, of Course, there's the Genesis, which is the background where the promise is, which is where every doctrine is found. Then there is the Exodus, which is because there was a bondage, a need for redemption. And that pervades the entire Old Testament up to the four Gospels. So there will be a unifier of a Christ. So therefore there will be a Christology. If we look up to God, who will deliver us, how would he deliver us? By a Messiah. So there's a Christology. So the first is faith and unbelief in God. The second is a Christology of God. What is the saving power of God or saving office of God or saving work of God? Christology.

So theology is compressed into a Christology which we can now break down into details. The details of the Christology will be, therefore the Christ will save. How is he going to do it? That is the soteriology. And so you have a lot of themes in the Old Testament, the reconciliation theme, the Kofa, the temple. So when you go into the laws of Moses, all he does is to take the laws and the statues of book of Genesis and put them into figurative terms. That is why he will now use pictures and all of that. So he compresses them into figurative terms. So God will live with you. He will be with you a house, he will be his family. Oikios, the Greek. Now I think the Hebrew is be. So it brings that and says, look, you know how they do it in.

Let me, let me talk like a Nigerian. You know how they do it in the fast shrine? This is this. You know how they do it in the Opatala place? This is it. So he brings it to their understanding. Okay, so that is soteriology. So we have themes like reconciliation, how is it done? Redemption, you have sanctification and all of that. All the things will come under soteriology. We can also add justification. I mean, what's that word again? Righteousness? Justified. You now look, all those things. Justified means, like I said, justified is not primarily to say, it's not primarily a discharge, an acquitted term. It means to put things right. So things are put right and in the context of the Jews, from idol worship to the worship of God, all that. So reconciliation, all of that.

So how is he going to do it? And this is very key. I'm still talking about the Christology. Now you have the new mythology by his spirit and Moses opening statement in Genesis 1 and the Spirit of God over. So you can say Genesis 1. One will be that the end product, the heaven and earth and then the Spirit of God over the waters. And by the time you read Genesis chapter two, you see the waters are the nations, the Spirit of God. So that means the soteriology will be carried out by the Spirit. So and that's why the book of Hebrews says that after they had built the holiest of all, it now signified that the way was not yet opened. And it says that way is opened only by the spirit. Hebrews 9.

So if it's by the Spirit there, it means we're still talking about Christology now. So you now have the Spirit, the work of the Spirit, the walk of the Spirit. My Spirit shall no longer side with man. Genesis 6. For his but flesh, his days are 120. So what will now happen is that the Spirit of God who is over the nations, will now inspire the teachers. So the Spirit is the one walking through the teachers who are the prophets. So there's a new mythology. Let's look at the Christology now will involve esoteriology. New mythology. What is the end product? Don't forget the end will be eschatology. At last. At the end fulfilled. Last day. When you hear last day. Last day. Last at last.

Now the way it is that, you know, if you look at the book of Genesis, there was nothing particular about this. It was Moses who began to talk about the seventh day, which is the last day. And why does he say seventh day? Because that is when everything has ended. The week has ended, a new beginning. All the promises God has given has come to pass. Last day. And that's something he also developed from the Egyptian culture. Last day. So the eighth day, which is another week entirely, will be a new beginning. A new beginning. So therefore he will put, pay attention here what the Christ will do as a last day fact. He will put judgment. Also as a last day fact. He will put the indwelling of the Spirit. Let me use that quickly as a last day fact. The last day.

Of course, some versions have last days. The reason why they do that is because there are many events in it. So that will be the eschatology. That's why I said that in our reading of the Old Testament, we have to understand the eschatological fact. That is, these are predictive things. So when you predict like that, the time it will come to pass is the last day. Now in the calendar that Moses will use the seventh day. Now notice that when he wrote Genesis chapter two, he put it as that day that is sanctified, where all God's promises will Come to pass. Hebrews 4, 2 and 3 says that it was from the foundation of the world, just saying in the book of Genesis. So we have that Christology that leads us into a new, sorry, new mythology. Then the last day.