Luke 24, 25, 27. And he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory again? And Moses and all the prophets, despite them, in all the Scriptures, things concern himself. Now we've seen that the use of Moses is becoming clearer by the day in the sense of not as the person of Moses as much as the writings of Moses. Of course, we cannot take away his person from the writers. So there was a culture. I think I've done the difference between the exegesis of text vis a vis the systematic theology. The exercise of text has its own attendant problems, where you take a text, explain it, and it's good in itself, but you fall into the danger of proof texting.

Proof texting is where you are only particular about that text, not the overall message of the Scriptures. And oftentimes it's why people eventually call a preacher like that, on balance imbalance, not because the person is peddling error, but it just has a tendency to lead to error. So we have seen, and this is the reason why teaching sessions in Bible were very long. Look at the Jesus in the. In the wilderness with the crowd. They spent four days, Paul, many days. Because whilst they were excusing text, it was done vis a vis, in tandem with a systematic theology of the entire Bible. So therefore it's you. I remember the earlier days in lma, then LTP used to call it. And we asked questions like in the four Gospels. Sorry, sorry.

In the Old Testament, as I would say in the Old Testament, in the four Gospels, in the Epistles. After a while we now said in the Law, in the Prophets, in the Psalms, in the fourth Gospels, in the Book of Acts and the Epistles. Get to a point, we'll stretch it further so that you see that systematic theology is the end goal of exegesis. Once it is true, you exhibit text, you know, and it's the reason why in recent years, I don't answer questions easily like that. I'll say, you know what? Go and listen to that series. The reason is that people oftentimes are more eager to answer a text than the entire Bible. But spiritual growth and Christian discipline forbids us from being particular about texts.

We must therefore take the discipline of a disciple and run with the exegesis of the entire Bible, which is a systematic theology, where in this instance you separate issues in their world, in their grammar, you know, a lot of things. Then you see, what are the concepts involved here? Just like we did in Luke 24, faith and unbelief, the concept of grammar and etc. Etc. You see all that in this. Nehemiah 8, Verse 7 caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book of the law distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. And that's the role of the teacher today. So just like we said earlier, you have a duty to know the grammar. Where grammar is misunderstood, whatever you build on, it will not be accurate.

The grammar has to be accurate. And grammar is not just a dictionary meaning of words. It's the way it is used in its sentences. It's like the use of words. Like Zoe, like we said, there is no heavenly word. Even the word Hallelujah is a borrowed word. Cherubim, temple. There is no word that is heavenly in knowledge. We've seen that everything is human language. I guess on Tuesday I would bring out more terms that we can trace the origin of those words and say, oh, this is where it came from. So we have the duty to firstly know the information. We said theology is the most important. Before you consider how to communicate it, you must first of all take the patience to know theology in the language originally said.

We'll probably still observe this, but I read something earlier that there is a tone also in grammar. It's what is called morphology. There's a tone. While I will say I did it, that is the way it sounds in English. But in Ibraism it could just be. The way it's written. It is not heard, whereas in English it is more, it is loud. So there is a tone. And that tone is critical in reading the Old Testament. I also mentioned that there is the use of pronouns where who is the person. Now look at Genesis 3. Look at the number of rhetorics. As God said. Genesis 3. As God said. A question. Verse 1. Then verse 9. Where art thou? Rhetoric. Verse 11. Who told you are naked? Rhetoric. Have you eaten of the tree? Well, for commanding, you should not eat of rhetoric.

Then Adam, the woman that you gave me. Then verse 13. What is it you have done? Rhetoric. Now notice the statements. Verse 14. Because you have done this, I want you to observe that in the judgment and justice of God, because you have done this, Thou art cause above all cattle, above every beast of the field. Upon thy belly thou shalt go, and thus shalt thou eat all this of your life. Now I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed. Now, is this causative or permissive? Did this happen because of sin? Yes. It shall bruise thy head and thou shalt bruise his heel. You see the subtle way that the causative and the permissive were used. Let's read on. So the woman said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. In Saul.

Thou shalt bring forth children and thy desire shall be over. Thy husband shall rule thee. Look at 17. Because you have hearkened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded it, saying, thou shalt not eat of it. Curse is the ground for your sake. And all of that. Now notice that because so those I wills are conditional statements. It's not what God did, rather what God saw. And within what he saw is his providence. So salvation comes in the view of God in a providential way. God did not ordain sin. He ordained salvation because man had sinned. And in his knowledge of man's sin will come the providential control, which is he provides a Savior, like we read in Genesis 2:18. So it incumbent on us to make a diligent.

You know, we said that you must first of all know the grammar. Read the entire content, then the content and pay attention to details. Pay attention to details. Every statement has an event it is responding to. Don't detach the statement from the event. We read what Joseph said. God turned it for you meant it for evil God. But the truth is that look at the event. So Joseph is speaking Hebraisim in a providential way. He's not saying God made it happen. And I want to drive that into that. We mustn't use permissive will. Permissive will is a. Will is a permissive tense or permissive verb. If you have sat with atheists before, or Christians turned atheists, you see how it's vital for us not to wish away these things because.

And the truth is, Calvinism doesn't care that anybody is atheist again, they will say that is how God wants it. And the beautiful way they say it is what will annoy you that now by the time you accept. Let me tell you how to think. If you accept the original sin theory, which says that as soon as you are born to this world, you have sinned. Okay? So they say. So if you say, how come God chose wallet to be saved and refused IO he said, choosing Wale to be saved is mercy, not choosing Ayo is justice. Because if he does nothing right, both Ayo and Wale will be damned. So that action is not partial. It is mercy. Do you understand? It is messy. So none of them can believe except he puts faith in his heart.

But does he put doubt in his heart? No, he just allows him be so he. Why did he send Jesus? He sent Jesus. I know you're not writing that. I'm talking about Calvin. He sent Jesus to save Wali. But Jesus will shed his blood for the whole world knowing that I will not believe justice. So it's effective as justice and effective as mercy. But you know that it is built on the false premise of we are all born sinners. And the greatest message is careless because they have their Romans 5:19 through one man everybody is made a sinner. Through one man everybody is made righteous. What are you saying? So procreation is now what you the first man is? It's not procreation. How is the second man? Did Jesus give back to your father? He said no.

How do you now equate the two Adams? They don't even know the unifier. Because if you're linked to the first Adam is procreation. If you bring in the center to the second Adam, it has to be procreation. So you can see there's an imbalance somewhere. So what is the unifier? Is this physical birth? No, the writer was saying that obedience. So the first Adam's disobedience produces examples of disobedient people. The second Adam's obedience to the promises of God in the Old Testament is as simple as that. So while you can't use procreation for the first Adam, then start using obedience for the second Adam. That is imbalance. So that is why in Romans 5 Paul used the same words. Who's following what I'm saying here? That is thinking. And the concept of saying a man is born a sinner is speak from Psalm 51.

It's not just a singular measure. It's not a mention ignoring many other texts of scripture. So it is something you must tackle wholesale. They start talking about the genocides of the Old Testament and all of that. We look at some of them on Tuesday. We just look at the text together. And you those things are written in your Bible. What betide you is an atheist. That shows you. I say, is he there? Are you crazy? In fact, somebody let me show you something. This is very funny. A guy went to court and he says, well, he wants to sue the God of the Old Testament for the genocide. You know, it looks foolish but the thing is, in today's laws, how would you command thy whole city is raised and all the children, animals, I mean, and somebody says, come and see.

So it's come and say something that God said he will cause David's daughters to be raped. Is there say, you see, in this time Jesus has not come. He said, you are crazy. So what did he come to do? He came. He came. Just came to know God. God was angry, then just chose to, you know, you begin to sound silly. So the Calvinist will develop a sovereignty concept that says that God is all controlling everything is within his power. That the things that he permitted, he decreed them to happen in his permission. That was a very funny concept of decree permission. I have read it so well that when I sit down with them, I'm smiling. You know how you read for an exam and you are confident? Oh yeah. Let us start from that point. So you see.

1 John 2:1 said for the sins of the whole world, that the concept of whole world in now the natural Bible technology doesn't have to be. Because when you say world, truly you know world. When he said the whole world have gone after Jesus, it was just a city, right? The men that have turned the world outside that they didn't get to Lagos. So they say world is specific, that you can use world for an age, a time, a people, that the world still remains the righteous. Now how. Why am I doing an argument here? How you tackle that is. Is the arrangement of words just like the way you would. There's a work we're doing on John 1:1. You see it? I think I'll show it to some of you on different witnesses. The Word is a God.

And how they want to separate the word Logos from Theos. It's very important to know it because the issue of the deity of Jesus has been questioned. That the only synoptic writer who tried to make Jesus God was John. And the challenge is that John wrote his own years after that. It was a later theology. I know we are in a world where there is a lot of knowledge. You may not know what your audience has read. So it is good to have your theology very sound. So we are going to work on that. The issue of the Logos not being a creation of John, that Logos is a New Testament, Old Testament concept. We'll see that. So to tackle these issues requires a lot of work. That's why I said we have treated the Bible unfairly. We have not read it well.