So which means that God had to use the knowledge of idol worship to teach about the worship of his son or his own worship through his son. Therefore you discover that. And some people are usually shell shocked when you discover that. Well, some Near Eastern books of thousands of years before Christ have similar vocabulary with the Bible. So they get scared. No, don't be scared. Israel wasn't the only nation in the earth. Moses was not schooled in a Bible school. He didn't go to any. Moses schooled in a typical secular school. And his language of interpreting supernatural, divine, Christlike realities. Christ realities, Pardon Me will be the language of Egypt, worship, etc. Etc. I think I mentioned the use of Titan. Did I? That was a Near Eastern fire. It was an Oriental culture. Titan, the use of oil. They don't.

The Genesis is not the Bible. The Genesis of those things, the use of the bread and the wine. The Genesis is not the Bible, it's a culture. And use of the bread and the wine again is a Near Eastern culture. Let me just go into that. And when Melchizedek was doing it, that is why Moses writes a priest of the Most High God. Then he lets us know that the man was from Canaan, because he was a prince, was a king of Salem, which is a place in Canaan. So already it shows you that without that pay attention here. Which means that Canaan before Israel came, had enough taste of the Gospel. That's another background, you see. And Melchizedek will use an oriental culture. Yet he is the priest of the Most High God, Elihon Yahweh, the Most High God.

He is a priest of the Most High. He is the King of Peace. Even his name represents Melchizedek. So with that background, it means that if you were a teacher in their days, all the vocabulary you are equally going to use will be the present day culture. Therefore, we cannot use perfect things to explain a perfect Christ in an imperfect world. It is vital in the way we interpret the Old Testament stories. That said, a view we must look at is Canaan. Canaan or Canaanites are the historically accepted Amorites. Amorite is spelled A M O R I T E S. Look at Genesis 15. Notice what will be said here. And he said unto Abraham, verse 13. Know of a shorty that thy seed shall be a stranger in the land that is not theirs.

They shall serve them, and they shall afflict them 400 years. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. And afterwards they shall come out with a great substance. So did you see again that the Exodus is Exodus out of bondage. It's deliverance and is also defensive. Now look at the next verse. 16. I'll read 15. And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace. Thou shalt be buried in a good age. But in the fourth generation they shall come either again. For the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. So we have Egypt in the background. Then we have Amorites where you have Canaan is not yet full. And that word is the word Shalem complete S H A L E M. Now notice the number of years. 430 Years. Years of consistent rebellion towards God.

Do not forget we already have a priest in their midst. 430 Years of avoid, iniquity, rebellion. That which requires punishment and the word shalom has to do with a full cycle. So what I see here is God's long suffering. So he says that, yeah, the time isn't right. Right now they are rebellious. Right now they have iniquity. But let's give them time. And look at Leviticus 18, verse 5. Leviticus. Leviticus 18, verse 5, verse 25. Sorry. The land is defiled, therefore I do visit the iniquity thereof upon it. And the land itself vomits out our inhabitants. Vomit out our inhabitants. So let's look at some instances where such judgment calls were made. One of them will be Sodom and Gomorrah. Genesis 19. If you summarize that. I know you know the story. 18 And 19. They couldn't even find 10 people. 10.

They couldn't find 10 people even before then. Remember in Genesis chapter 6, verse 11 to 13, Noah preached for how many years? 120 Years of his preaching? 120. We've done that study before Genesis 6 and 3. Their heart is desperately wicked. Genesis 5:32, Genesis 7:6, 6 and 2nd Peter 2 and 5 desperately wicked. And we've discovered that Enoch had prophesied about it, which means in that land Enoch kept telling people, this is the implication. Then he had a son, Methuselah, and named Methuselah after his prophecy. And he became waxed in disobedience and yet in rebellion. Look at it again. 120 Years was what's in the background now. Notice again that Deuteronomy, chapter 9, verse 4.

Look at what he says about speak not thy, not thou in thy heart, after the Lord thy God has cast them out from before thee, saying, for my righteousness, the Lord brought me in the possessors. But for the wickedness of these nations, the Lord drive them out before your face. So he's saying to Israel, not because you are done fine, for thy righteousness is over the uprightness of thy heart, Thou, God, bless the land. But for the wicked of these nations, God does drive them so the issue is not because you equally have done well. We saw on Saturday we're going to see again that whatever happened to the Amorites happened to Israel. So at the end of the day, God isn't unjust or the way it's presented doesn't show injustice.

So what has happened here is that is where they reached a judgment point. Paul will say God gave them up unto vile affection, he gave them over to justice. Now the question is, what kind of wickedness are we dealing with here? Again, we can find this out archaeologically. We can also find out within scripture. The first things about Canaan was serious idol worship that engaged incest, temple sex, bestiality, homosexuality, adultery. A whole lot of permissions or permissiveness was given. Leviticus 18. We have Leviticus 18. We have an highlight from verse 20 to 30. Because of our time, we will not go through everything. Verse 20 to 30, where they were warned. They offered their children to molech defile their daughters. And all of them they had uncontrolled appetite for sex. In fact, if you look at Romans 1, I've done that study.

When Paulyzed Romans 1 from verse 18 through to 32, he brings into question how we need to see that idolatry is rebellion. Is rebellion. I'll give you a few historical facts. There was baal, the fertility God baal, who will have sex or who initiated sex with the goddesses of Canaan. And he had a consort or a partner called Anah A N a T H And they were asking for sacrifices of semen like rain. That was how they were. We also have Anath and also the goddess Kolkali K A L I of which is an Hindu God. And they were fed with blood. And usually they will drink the blood of their victims. And also they'll be offered dead bodies. Usually one of the sacrifices of this particular goddesses to give skulls place calls, you know.

And I was going to see either today or maybe Wednesday. We see that there is an inherent ability of humanity to know that it is wrong. So there is within this a whole lot of history of who the Canaanites were. Was there history of the worship of God? Not Melchizedek. We've seen also Sodom and Gomorrah. Melchizedek. Now pay attention. Somewhere a man by the name, an archaeologist by the name of William Albright described Anaf. This particular deity said the blood was so deep that she wetted in up to at least lay up to her neck. Under her feet were human heads. Above her human hands flew like locusts. Above her human hands flew like locusts. In her sensuous delight, she decorated herself with suspended heads while she attached hands to her gaddo. Her joy was at the killing.

The butchery is described in a more sadistic language. Her liver swore with laughter. Her heart was full of joy. The liver of Anas was full of joy. Exultation. Anat is satisfied and Washes her hands where there's blood. So these are the people called the Canaanites. So and one of the things about Canaan then was that it had tremendous effect around the world. That is critical. So now two questions we are going to ask. Well, whatever. Was it not their religion that we say, did Israel have the right therefore to take over their land? Yes. One, you could say that. Did you not have the right to take over the land? Maybe the second should be, did they have the right to remain there? So if you look at the realm of justice, do they have the right to remain there?

Does Jesus have right to occupy there? Two key questions. What history and today have let us know what the Canaanites and Israel are no longer there were different from the same place. Now the question should now be, does God have a right to judge idol worshipping nations? Again, it's perspective. If you think he didn't create the world, then you are right. But if you think he created the world, then you are wrong. We said it also in this series. Is it right to worship God? Yes. Is it right for the worship of God to be commanded? Yes. So like his perspective. Oh, I don't believe there is God. Well, that doesn't change the fact that there is God. Like saying, I don't believe that this nation is governed by the president. That's fine by you, but be rest assured that it is.

So it's about perspective. And Paul says to us that the invisible things of this world, sorry, the visible things of this world already point you to an invisible visible God. It takes a whole lot of argument against reason to say there's no God. And don't forget that Israel as a nation was judged many times in history, including when Jesus came and in A.D. 70, according to Matthew 24, another nation came, invaded their land and drove them out. So the issue of whatever happened in the Old Testament never presents God's judgment as partial. No. Because the very nation that he chose to rot his works, which he already said that they are not perfect. It's not because they are righteous or they've done everything right. The very nation, okay, the very nation has also expressed the same kind of judgment that the Canaanites had.

Now we're going to ask another question because I want us to look at the vis a vis today. Now, if there's a nation today in the world today where they kill people for sacrifice and their rulers, you know, they dominate their subjects, let me use that word. And then they offer them, just like the Anaf and the Canaanites and then the United nations comes together, or they come together and they declare war against that nation and they remove their rulers. All right. Where the cases take off their subjects and reform that society. You know, I'm going to clap for them, right?

Because you say that the prevailing culture there is hidden now look back in their world and bring it to this world and see that in terms of world's natural justice, there's absolutely nothing wrong in stopping people in the society who were bestial and inhuman towards others. Don't forget, we have done the story to say that the combats, or the combat, the wars were against combatants. Those who enforced these practices. Once again recall that when they got to Jericho, that there was enough signs and wonders. They'd heard about it, they knew it happened. And In Joshua, chapter 2, verse 10 and verse 11, we find that Rahab said, we have heard how the Lord dried up the Red Sea for you. Joshua 2, 10, we have heard it. So it was a known fact in the whole nation.

In Joshua, chapter 4, verse 23, the Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan. This is. They are speaking to the children of Israel, the Lord your God. The people came unto them. The people came up to Jada on the 10th day. Kapad, Giga and Israel and those 12 stones. And then he said, when your children, okay, and they speak on children of your saying verse 22, then you shall let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. The Lord your God dried up. So this is an account that was preached in the whole world. Don't forget we have said that the Exodus story is all over the Bible. So they were fully aware. Joshua 9, 9, 10. That's what I wanted to read actually. Verse 9 to 10.

The Gibeonites said, from a far country thy servants are come because of the name of the God, Lord thy God. For we have heard the fame of him and all that he did in Egypt. So they had heard. So it's like they had heard the gospel. Now you know, this is the account you have. Now let me ask you, what was Melchizedek doing in Salem? He's a priest of the Most High God. And all the kings of the Midianites equally had these stories. Whether you go back to Genesis 4, Genesis 5. So idol luxury is man made in rebellion against God or towards God? Now, a crucial question we want to ask, I think is a bit of a technical thing is I've done this study for us before is defying falsehood.