We thank you for the light that the revelation of your Son brings to us today. Again we ask and seek that you grant our heart, accuracy and precision, that together as a church, we behold Jesus Christ your Son, as he sees us in him, that he is glorified and we are edified. Amen. Let's have a seat here. Luke 24. I've been crossed the barrier of grammar in the sense that looking at the grammar aspect of our studies, we want to look at another crucial area, as the case is Luke 24. And verse 25. And he said unto them, O fools are slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken.

Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory again at Moses and all the prophets as far as them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself. So first barrier there is that he is able to interpret and interprets there. Darren Menu, who said it implies the ability to number one, the grammar, the context, the background of the faith and unbelief, you know, contrast and their world. But the first element we said is faith, because the Bible is a book of persuasion. Is not a book a persuasion that uses history, grammar, illustrations, parables and all of that. So that's a key element to interpretation. The fact that it is a book. You won't be doing justice to a chemistry book, studying it as mathematics, even though it will include some calculations.

Neither would you be doing justice to a mathematical book, even though it refers to plants in his arithmetic. You'll be doing justice only when you understand it as what it is. And you ask what is a book of persuasion. 2Nd Timothy 3, 16. All scripture is given by inspiration of God's proof table for doctrine that's cleared. Then it says for reproof where you have persuasion, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. So diamond knew here we explored that already in verse 44. These are the words which I speak to you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, in the prophets, in the Psalms concerning I want you to circle the phrase law of Moses.

One of those words like words that require that you unpack them, that they when you mention a word like the law of Moses is something that you need to unpack and give it the it has a wider meaning than just that phrase love. Moses on its own is a subject. It's like a briefcase that has a lot of things inside or a house. There are so many things that you have to now make separation distinctions and all that. So it says in verse 45 that he opened ye their understanding an ogil that they might understand the Scriptures. Where you have the mind, know whose the mindset or thinking pattern that they might understand the Scriptures. So the Scriptures has its own understanding. Tsunyemi, which is the Scriptures. Of course, that's Genesis to Malachi. It has its own understanding the way it should be read.

Now observe that this isn't peculiar to Jesus ministry. I submit to you that what Jesus did here is what is prevalent in all of the epistles. That is, the epistles have done the same thing. They've been able to interpret the Old Testament text in his world in their world. And crossing the measurement unifiers. The other day in Acts of the apostles, chapter 28 and verse 22. We find Paul 23. And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him in his lodging, to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus both out of the law of Moses and out of the prophets from anointed Eden.

And something again you should observe that is becoming consistent is that I don't want to call it separation, but that law of Moses and prophets, that is readily the Scriptures make that distinction for you altogether. They are called the Scriptures. No doubt they tell them all the Scriptures. This is concerning himself. Why is there a separation which means if something has become very consistent? John 1:45, Moses in the law and the prophets we speak about Luke 24:27, Moses and all the prophets. He started them in all the Scriptures. Luke 24:44, which I said, which was using the law of Moses. And in the prophet and in the Psalms concerning me. And in Acts 3 there was also that distinction. I want you to just see that there's a consistent distinction.

Acts 3:22, Moses truly said unto the fathers, Then 24 ye and all the prophets from Samuel. So you see that distinction. Acts 13, Verse 39. Of course everything will be called the Scriptures. But look at there's that distinction for which you could not justify by law of Moses. Beware that let's come upon you which is spoken in the prophets. That distinction comes Acts 26, verse 22, which the Prophet and Moses say, shall come the prophet and Moses. That consistent distinction which means even though they should be studied together, they should be distinctly or distinguished in our study pattern. Okay, Nehemiah Again, chapter 8, verse 7 and 8 shows us that. I remember I said something on Facebook and some folks really get a wire that there's nowhere in Bible where we are told to know God for ourselves that we are to be taught.

We just went bonkers. How can you say that? That's how you are going to introduce so and so and so. You know, oftentimes we speak from our bias, from our fears. I don't know why you're afraid of that, but the plain truth is, and you know, as interesting as this looks very simple to you, but look at a verse like 2nd Timothy 2, 15, Study to show thyself approved unto God, which had nothing to do with studying, it was about preaching. But look at how many people have exhumed that word to mean read your Bible. Meanwhile, it's talking about the mode of preaching, of course, that already has within it you have to study to preach. No doubt.

But the fact remains that a word should be given its meaning so that it doesn't carry out another intention of the different from that of the author. You know, so Neymar 8, 7 the B part which explains teaching. Actually open to numbers. It caused the people to understand the law. And the people stood in their place and they read the in the book of the Law distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand. So teaching ministry makes you to understand the word being is used there B I n discernment, insight. So therefore it means that every Bible teacher this will sit well with certain folks, is a teacher of the law. If you are a child of scriptures, then you are a teacher of the law of Moses. What are you doing? You are making people to understand.

Look at second Timothy one, sorry, one Timothy one, The book of the five books of Mosaic, the introduction of any book that leads you to understand the book altogether. First Timothy 1, verse 7, of course, verse 3, maybe just the background. Paul charges Timothy that he should stay in Ephesus and church some that they teach no other doctrine where you have the word etero de la. Then it says in verse seven, desire him to be teachers of the law, which is not a negative thing. Teachers of the law, he says, understanding neither what they say nor whereof they affirm. Teachers of the law. Look at the next verse. We know that the law is good if a man uses it lawfully. No Mimos in the Greek N o M I M O s which you are going to find in second Timothy 2, 5.

If a man also strives for masteries, he is yet not count except he does it properly. Strives lawfully, that is to do it properly. So what the law requires is a proper interpretation. The law is good if a man properly uses it, properly interprets It. So if you say design to be teachers of the law, especially in chapter three, he says, if a man desires the office of a bishop, it must be a teacher. A teacher of what? A teacher of the law, properly said. So that phrase law of Moses I said, is a word that needs to be unpacked. You don't just throw it under the bus. Because in certain places we are called. Look at. Let me give you an instance. In certain places, Paul will write that we are free from the law or sin and death, Romans 8:2, for example.

And then the same person will write that in Romans 3, 13, 10, the same book, that love fulfills the law. So if the law were to be evil and love fulfills it, of course there's this ninth objection we can give to Romans 10:4. Christ is the end of the law to everyone that believes. Where you have again another word that you unpack? End of the law doesn't mean he has put the law to a conclusion by making it ineffective, or he has brought the law to a conclusion by doing it. Now, the two definitely will be the truth of it, depending on how you explain it. Okay? That is, it brings the law of sin and death to an end by fulfilling the law of the spirit of life. And it's the same books it's referring to.

So it depends on the approach you take and what you achieve from scripture. Scripture seeks to achieve better still. So that phrase law of Moses requires more thinking. And the phrase law, you look at the word law is used. Look at the Jeremiah 31, 33, 34. Promise I will write my law in their heart and put it in their inward parts, which the writer of Hebrews repeats in Hebrews 8. That should be verse 10, 11. I'll put it in their inward part. And the promise of Ezekiel 36, 26, a new heart will I give you, a new spirit I put within you. I'll take your heart out of your flesh. I'll give you a heart of flesh. I'll put my spirit within you and make you walk in my statutes and judgment and do them.

So it means that when you see the word law, status, judgment, don't be afraid. It just needs to be understood again within the context of what he said. Look at Galatians 6. Two. Bear one another's bodies, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Fulfill the law of Christ. Just bracket Matthew 22, 37, 40 there, where he says, what is the greatest commandment of the law? That rich young ruler, or is it a young ruler of the Jews? Asked him, he said, love the Lord your God with all your heart and your mind and soul, said the second, which is like unto the first. Love your neighbor as yourself. On these two hangs the law and the prophets. Now I want you to understand the word on these two, which means that just like every piece of literature, what it says is Acts.

That means you will interpret the entire Old Testament on these two. Love the Lord your God, which is faith in God. When you say, love Lord your God, it means to esteem him. Then he says, love your neighbor as yourself. One is worship, the other one is relationship, or let's say, conduct. So he said, on these two hangs all the law and the prophets, which means that there is an embedded mode of interpretation which we said earlier is the faith background. The background of faith and faithfulness of God will help the way it is studied. So when is it the law of Christ? The law of Christ is not separate from the law of Moses. It's just the way it is interpreted.

Now, if you look at Galatians 5 from 13, where he began that conversation, and then he says, God has called you not to liberty to serve the flesh, but by love serving another. Then he says that for all the law is fulfilled in one word, this thou shall love thy neighbor as thyself. Leviticus 19:18, that everything is fulfilled in one word. So put at the back of your mind so you have a narrow thinking in Matthew 5:17, I've not come to destroy love, but to fulfill it. Then what else? We said Romans 10:4, Christ is the end of the law to everyone that believes you can protect that. But when you go back to Romans 3 and you see we established the law, you see the law of works, see the law of faith.

Then you now see, before you get to that, Romans 10, you have the law of the spirit of life in Christ Jesus. And again, you need to bracket Romans very well to know that technically Romans, theology of it begins or ends in that sense, Romans 1:8, 39 is like a body in itself. Then from Romans 9, the appeal to Israel. Romans 9 and then Romans 10 and 11, there's an appeal that look, guys, I want you to be saved. And then he brings all the narratives of the known narratives among children of Israel. Then Romans 12, I beseech you, buried by the mercies of God, where we can now say that he brings in what you can call the practice of Christianity. 12, 13, 14, And then 1514 is that unity. Some eat herbs, some don't. 13 Is okay.