What. What applies to them now? One unique thing about the laws that Moses made was the. How do I put it now? The accommodation of foreigners. Look at Zoro 23, Verse 15. Then thou shalt not deliver unto his servant or his master. The servant which is escaped from the master unto you. He shall dwell with you, even among you, in that place which he chose, in one of thy gates where it likes him. Thou shalt not oppress him. Okay, now it means that if you find a runaway slave, somebody who ran away from his master, he says you are not bound to return him. What does the Arabic code says? He says if you help a runaway slave, the penalty is death. There are other laws, the Hittite laws, they give you pay fines. The Eshuna laws, I will put that, you pay fines.

It looks like an improvement. But then it's not. Because here again, the slave or the servant is still treated like a property. And more importantly, or most importantly, you are duty bound to return the slave to the master. And anytime the slave goes back to the master, harsher conditions are imposed on him. Later on in the Babylonian laws, you have to pay fines and all of that. And one of the things they do to slaves when they go back is that they disfigure them. They make them unattractive to any other person to marry or to have anything. This Moses wrote against one of the things they do when a slave comes back. They cut his hair, mutilate his body very badly. So it will be recognized amongst them that this is a guy that ran away and he was caught.

So whilst we don't have a perfect law in place, we have a vastly improved legislation done by Moses. Now, some have argued that the text we just read now refers to a Jew, not a non Jew, or an Israelite, not a non Israelite. But the truth is that the word brother or neighbor is not used at all. And more so Leviticus 25, You are not allowed to even ensnave a fellow Israelite. In Deuteronomy 23:16, He will dwell with you, and you will ensure that he is not oppressed. So very clearly, it's obvious that there was huge protection given to those who were servants. And the end product, what is Moses goal? Moses goal is very simple, that you should love your neighbor as yourself. That's the. That's why Jesus said that upon this hangs all the law and the prophets.

So when Romans 13, 9, 10, 11, now that says love works no ill to deliver. Love fulfills the Law, you know, you have to look at it from their world. This is the love of God treating the poor right. I need you to one day, I mean, not one day, maybe today, go and look at Abraham Lincoln's speech when he declared slavery was, you know, abolished. Like I said, those who were for slavery quoted the Bible depends on your interpretation. Those who are against it were teaching from Scripture. And I submit that if. Now let me ask you, if the scriptures were properly taught in American churches, they would never have been slavery. Same as appetite, same thing as what motivated Hitler to have the extermination of the Jews behind all of this. Even Islam is a wrong interpretation of scriptures.

Even though, like we said, you may not have the ideal situation in Israel, but if you were in their world and they showed you the Murabi culture and their code and they ask you, where do you want to stay? Do you want to stay in Israel or stay in this foreign. Of course you stay in Israel because you say, just like today, somebody will tell you, if you go to this country, they protect their citizens. I prefer that place than this place because it's in comparison. So it's therefore not proper for anybody to interpret the law of Moses in isolation. We have just said that. Now look at the laws of our days. Those of you are lawyers, know this all. There is no constitution in the world that doesn't copy something.

It's either they copy from the American one, then amend it to their world copy from the British one. You know, people copy. I think it was Japan that I learned that they just took the American Constitution word for word, uttered a few things, and that was it. So you are Moses. You take the Murabi code, the Ashona laws, Hittite laws, and you say, okay, how can I come up with the legislation that will love your neighbor as yourself? Are you there? Treat your brethren well, Honor Jehovah, Yahweh, as he should. This is what Moses found himself doing. Let me show you following what I say here. So if you didn't get the first thing we said earlier today, it's not clear to you what he's saying, because you'll be asking yourself, what is a pastor's job in telling people slaves? He was your own.

He was not just a pastor, he was a lawmaker, a lawgiver, an executor. So you need to see it. In their world, they take the. If I recently Nigeria wanted to do one law on disease control. They just went to Singapore, they didn't even edit. They just worried our world. So which means that the teachers of Scripture, whenever they are keying these laws, were very careful because we're going to see later that by the time it got to Paul's era, the slavery doctrine and regulation had changed. It wasn't the same thing. This was. I mean, this is more. Well, the closest to that period was the Babylonian era. Things are totally changed. Wasn't the same thing. Another thing was that they had institutionalized slavery such a way that they would have some very harsh laws about it. They had monetary value.

A lot of things that changed at that point. So therefore, you and I have a duty and a depth to our world to understand theology of the Old Testament. Yesterday I showed you the danger of neglecting the Old Testament and a more inherent danger of teaching it wrongly. So you must keep comparing that. In their world, don't forget, they came out of Egypt. In their world, what was applicable. So when you see Moses talking about property, slaves, marriage offenses, you need to realize that in their world there were very harsh penalties. And let me ask you another question. Do you know very well that Israel before Moses became their deliverer? That was what they were practicing, those harsh laws. So in other words, he's trying to reschool them, you know, to teach them another law.

Unlike their world where those at the lower low rung of the ladder were treated with disdain, Moses helped the high to see the low as his brother. Not just his brother, his responsibility. Moses gave the laws a human face. Moses promoted fundamental human rights. These indentured servants, slaves you can call them, were treated as human beings. Though there was a distinction between the free and the slave was equally protected by law. The Murabi code, the Hittite laws, gave the slave transgression to the masters. Moses gave a legislation so that you become guilty. But let's come to New Testament. What the law could not do right in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son, condemned sin because the law was equally correcting sin. But he could not do it.

So the way it is done today is the law of the Spirit of life. And I showed you that before you get to Romans 8:2, you have seen Romans 5:8, right? Romans 4:25. So if you had seen all of that, then when we say Christ Jesus, the sacrificial work of Jesus comes to mind. I'll repeat this again for emphasis. The seventh year of release is critical to that law saying you cannot owe forever. That's all. Even if you can't pay within six years, by the seventh year you are free now. Let me now say something that looks like a contrast, a contradiction in the Murabi code. They allowed you to work only for three years, because you'd be like, okay, so you are saying that I can work for six years? Three years. But then the right of release stayed with the master.

You see, like what they gave you. They took you back by the back door. But Moses makes it compulsory by the seventh year, let the guy go. So what he's doing is just weighing it, okay? Rather than reduce the number of years, okay, work will pay your debts. If after six years you cannot, you can go. Rather than stay with the Lord that says, in three years, work. After three years, I decide to elongate it. There's no right of a slave, not one. So Moses has simply been balanced. Right for the slave, right for the owner. Of course, the six years is not compulsory. If the guy pays off in two years, he can go. But if he cannot finish paying off after six years, by the seventh year, he has to go.

The Murabi code says, well, three years is when you should work. But it's not left for your boss to extend it, what you call it, contract employment by contract. They are now saying there is now a renewal clause that you can't sign. They will just tell you are still working, you are still working. And where you get injured while working, you compensate the owner because you have cheated him benefits. Moses says, if he's injured like this, he's gone, would I just go and enjoy myself. But it now balances by saying that the injury must come from the master, where he slaps you, or I just let you slap me, Boa, slap me. I'll just probably remove my teeth. I make sure the teeth is shaking, I just run to the judge, you know?

So when you find the judges, of course, also another thing is that you don't take actions by yourself. There's no jungle justice. All this is. You go to the judges of Israel, they'll sit down, they will look at your case, you know, and you also have people that will like your defenders here. It's a typical justice system, you know, that's. You know, what their projects. So, like I said, we need to look at the laws of their age, their days, to know what Moses is projecting. Another key thing is that in their world, kings were absolute. They were absolute. You couldn't in any way, you know, in any format, there's nothing. They were just absolute. But not Israel. We have found cases of David was not above the Law, Ahab. Even though they were not punished like everybody you know, Uriah also not Uriah.

Sorry. Not Uzzah. Sorry. Uzziah. Sorry. 2Nd Chronicles 26:19. Solomon, you discover that a lot of them had judgment against their actions. Manasseh, David, Solomon, you know, and the reason why the Bible lets us cease is because in their world, kings were absolute. It lets us know that they are not the king in their workings were absolute. They will do and undo, even though we must give this to it that well, they didn't take the exact punishment other citizens took. But they were not above the law. But the kings in their own world, even before around the time Moses, like Pharaoh, they were absolute. Anything they said. But you now had like call it a checks and balance. You had a prophet, then a king, then priest. To show that there is no absolute power rested on the king alone.

Just balancing the acts as it is. So the truth is we must always look at what the laws are correcting. While the judicial system didn't treat kings and non kings the same way, it also did not treat them as exclusive and can be above the law. Leviticus 19. 15. You shall not do unrighteousness in judgment. Thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty. But in righteousness thou shalt judge your neighbor. No righteousness there justice do the right thing. It is unassailable, irrefutable that the laws of Israel were incomparable to any laws of their time. No other Near Eastern laws found anywhere in history books, and I challenge anyone to check it, ever makes the master responsible for the treatment of his servants as touching injury.

The universal law in their days, when a slave runs away, is returned back and severe penalties are visited on those who don't help this to happen. Moses alters that. We must also say that. I'm not saying here that the laws of Moses were perfect such that we can bring them to our world. They look, they come out smelling of roses. No, but in their world, something that Moses tried to achieve, and I want us to look at his mind, was that as he was giving those laws, he gave them Genesis. Male and female created ye them. He let us see that it's just one mankind. And we need to deal with this fact that we're in a fallen world. I was privileged to talk to somebody two days ago about that. That look, this world is falling.