Okay, let's go to First Corinthians 15. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received, wherein you stand, by which also you are saved, if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How thou Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried and he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures. So the Scriptures therefore should be narrated, or when they are narrated, this is the conclusion. Christ died for our sins. He was buried and raised again the third day. And so we said there where therefore comes all the issues that arise from the Old Testament, where people will confront you and ask you questions.

Well, if Christ died for our sins, yes, accept them. But what happened in the Old Testament? What kind of image of God do we have? I would say this quickly and hopefully by the week to come. Again, we'll delve into this more, boy. See, every historical document has the means, how they are documented. For example, if I write a story of something that happened in maybe 60 years ago, I'm likely going to use the language of the day. I won't foresee a day where people will speak in today's grammar. So in retaining the original language of the Old Testament, which is also said, because you also have to be very careful so as not to make it contemporaneous and then lose the truth, that is, you make it so close today, then the intent is lost.

That's why it therefore is incumbent on Bible teachers to go to the original languages and then be able to interpret in today's language. For example, in my in, I remember hearing Brother Hagin said this, and that was when he was explaining Exodus 15:26 I will not put on you the disease of the Egyptians from the Lord that he lay. Then he said that the word I will not put there was permissive. That was not causative. I mean, I never heard that before because I never was able to. I think that was sometimes in 94 thereabout. Then I said, that means that the language of the Hebrew is such that it doesn't separate. I did it and I saw it or I allowed it. So kind of that was interesting for me that changed the entire narrative of how I studied the Old Testament.

So I had to now begin to so how do I know what he did and what he saw that happened or what he permitted? Of course, in the language of Brother Hagin, which was very helpful, was to now Read in detail, for example, there were instances, I now found out that when God talks about judgment of what they had done, that eventually it is the enemy, maybe the Syrians, the Assyrians, that eventually carried it out. So I kind of felt two things either happened. It's either God is actually on their side or it was simply warning them of an impending danger of what they had done. Now, if that was the case, that means that the language of that did not permit to separate the doer, okay? And someone who just knew about it.

So for me, that was the first mountain I had to climb and which would infer that, of course you don't now say that everything in the Old Testament that God says is permissive. We should knock your head. Do you understand? You know, I think I mentioned something yesterday when we looked at Isaiah 53, when he says it pleased the Lord to bruise him. And we found out that within the same Isaiah, what will happen to that Messiah is that it's the people that will do it. Can you remember I said that yesterday? So that means the language itself needs careful attention so that you don't give Oba's child to Oshun as my own language. So the first thing is to understand it in that world, okay? And then today's world.

So I mean, we just talked about, it's called a jealous God and it's within idolatry. We are going to look at it. Is idolatry really negative? Is it negative or positive? Does it hurt? Because if it doesn't hurt, why are you bothered about what doesn't hurt? That should be the next question. But if we come to the conclusion that it hurts humanity and that is how it hurts God, then God's jealousy is actually positive. Do you get that? Do you understand that? Okay, now another instance that will come up, which is very key, is that, you know, we mentioned that the figures, the Bible figures of the Old Testament, the Bible figures, the key figures, have certain things that you are ashamed of.

I mentioned Noah, I mean, if anybody points to someone today and say, his children had children for him, did you hear that? His children had children for him, say, ha. Say, but he's a man of God, you know, oh, that guy lies. He lied, he got money, Abraham, he lied, he got favor and he says, you know, and so they become very controversial figures eventually. The reason I was telling somebody, you know, two weeks ago, I said, but if at the end of the day you now read in the same Bible that it is wrong, say, yes, it's there, that means the Bible is honest. That should have been positive, right? That is honest about its heroes. That what we are saying is wrong here. Our heroes, they actually did it. Then the guy paused, he said, well you are correct. You.

I said, but in today's systematic writings of our great intellectuals they will shield that part. Look at today, the Civil War of 1966-70. We have different versions because people decided to tell the stories that will make people hate each other. In fact, in this country they removed history because I love history. There is no society that has been able to plot its future without reading its past. I love history. But they just removed it so that you can't say eh. So this man that is contesting this was what he did social and so period. I mean in this country, imagine somebody say what's June 12th? I said what happened? I said okay, that guy, you know where the weather is Mao lag. You see the way the Unilag students fought. I have to see some of them now.

I said are you aware what is money to education? Why Unilag? You know, we are great alchemists. I said somebody is going to do it one day and there's nothing you're going to do about it. There are investors in America that agree they are named after people, you know. And I said the man. So I said what's YouTube? Was somebody. I said well, election free and fair. Investors don't even know what free and fair is. They've removed it. So you don't even know that there was a day there was an election in this country and there was no single violence. There was not one single barn lot box snatching. Have you ever heard that before? Is falling to you. Not one single incident. Even the military authorities were shocked. And that day it rained a bit. Not one single incident. They didn't say.

But somewhere here I was a Muslim. Muslim ticket that one vote all over Nigeria today. They've removed that from our history. They say he's a Muslim, don't vote for him. He's a Christian, don't vote for him. Because when you remove history you take a people's past away from them and you determine what their future is looking like. I'm not sounding political, am I? So I love to read history. And so in looking history always shows you the context. Therefore be more particular about reading the whole Old Testament everything because it is only true in its world. Now let me somehow I'm in this mood. I think I didn't leave it. You know, the truth is this and I was talking to one guy who came to be an atheist.

I'm saying this because there's no way you can talk about God in the Old Testament without looking at the arguments of the atheists. But that's where they leave the epistles alone and says, if the Old Testament is not true or if it is that bad, then the epistles are destroyed. There's no. Because the epistles are supposed to teach the Old Testament. And I asked him a question. I said, yes, you say Israel was this, Israel was that. Israel did this. They did this in Israel. They killed children. They did this. And I asked him a question. Was Israel the whole world? He said, no. Were there other nations? Have you studied their history too? He said, yes. So went to the Thomas Hobbes.

I said, and they said that in history, man without a law and regulation was brutish, his life was short, and our people were wicked to each other. And we saw different historical accounts around the same period. I said, so was it the worship of Jesus that made them do it? He said, no, see your life. So you are being very unfair to zero what they have done to the fact that they have worshiped God. If those who didn't worship God did it, there is not their worship of God that made them do it. I hope you are following what I'm saying. We'll get to that as well. So the context is always key. The context of it is very vital. If somebody says to you today, now and says that. Let me try and use something that will make sense.

If somebody mentions, I think this exists, but let's say a couple of days to come. I'm trying to, I'm trying to see something I want to talk about, but I also talk about cpu. I did a CCPU today, but there comes time. You see a CPU of a computer, the guy will say, what are you talking about? In fact, my children told me that there's something called BBC. I said, what BBC? Born before computer. I mean, so when you're talking, say, oh, you were born before the computer is. So you dial O1, 2, 7. See, I was dialing it. I was. Oh, the person looks at you and says, what are you talking about? I wanted to call someone. So as I was dialing, my hand was stuck. What? On the phone. How is it touchscreen? No, it's not touchscreen.

So imagine that you have that mentality that you need to go back to that world and say, okay, what were they using then? Then it will make sense why the term temple Sacrifice, it has to do with that world. So it is within the context of that world that we begin to look at the words that were used. If you are going to communicate to somebody in Nigeria, you cannot use the language of the culture. In Ghana, even though you want to change their culture, you will still have to use their language to explain a new culture. So therein is the context of many of the things said in scripture. Now let's look at another thing I mentioned earlier. And that's Abraham offering Isaac today.

Like I said, if they said, you offer, took your child to a mountain not to pray, and then you took with you sticks to offer the child, if you come down and say, well, I didn't offer him, eventually, it doesn't matter. Intent is what is important. The fact that you could think about offering a child. Now let's look at that. That story is in Genesis 22. Again, it's dishonest. Nobody starts reading a book from chapter 22. The first thing we need to debunk here is that Isaac was not a teenager. Neither was he an adolescent. Every historian I have consulted agrees that he was between the age of 35 and 39. How about that? He was not a child. And of course I understand the yellow book. No, he was an adult. And that in itself passes across the message of the Messiah.

That means whatever he did was willingly. Now, let's just explain that a bit. Take your son, verse two, your only son. And son is usually used for a mature person. Now, in chapter 23, immediately after this event, Sarah died, verse one. And Sarah was 127 years. 127 Years. So that means that Isaac was 37 years at the minimum. So his sacrifice was therefore willing. It wasn't that he went there against his will. No. Whatever he was to do or what he did. Sorry, not his sacrifice. What he did was not an act against his will, was an act of his will. It's like in Matthew 20:28, I give myself a ransom. But we know that we need to also explore a lot of things. Now, who was this story leading to a rebellious nation? Okay.

Who Moses was writing to about the redemptive plan of God? Always have that in the background. So in chapter 26, verse 5, Chapter 26, verse 5, I'll start from 4. For I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven. This Isaac, I will give unto thy seed all the century, all the countries, and in thy seed shall the nations of the earth be blessed. Now, let's read verse five together. I want you to observe something because that Abraham obeyed my voice, right? Now, if you are a good friend of the Bible, where do you find this phrase used a lot in the Exodus, right? Obeyed my voice. Okay, this is in the Exodus. Then he says, and kept my charge, my commandments, my status and my laws. Come on, hold on. Church. Statutes, commandments and laws. Where is that one?