I'm the one that should give the sacrifice. Read Genesis. What about Leviticus? There was Exodus and then there was Genesis. This is the context. He hardened people. Harsh hearts already had existed. They were worshipping other adults. And so God moved gradually. If you didn't know anything at all. Jesus had 12. He had many things to say to them, but he couldn't tell them at some point. Have you ever seen sometimes look like frustration? Have I been long with you? You still didn't get this? And to show how studious they were at his discipleship, Peter cut off someone's hair. And in Acts 5, he did it by the Holy Ghost. Are you following what we are saying? So imagine a nation of rebellious people. It is a SO has done this. He must die. He must die. He must die. Say wait.

Say we are going to take out his heart. We will say stone. Are you following Stone? Just trying. Stone is not going to die quickly. I know stone. Do you get it? But he must die is their culture. That's their culture. Can you offer total dose? Total dose? Total what? Okay, wait a minute. Can we flog him 20 stones? It's not enough. So can you see the dilemma of God and Moses? And where did that order come from? Because they will not obey the voice of God like Abraham did. So it's in their world that you have to interpret it. They came out of the world of tyranny, of oppression, Pharaoh, Egypt. And you know all of that. How's the world? We didn't know anything at all. Look at the dreams. The dream that.

I mean, when Joseph interpreted the dream of the potter and the big. He just cut his head. When the king, the Pharaoh of Genesis caught the head of that is it the baker now? Was he reading the Old Testament? That was the culture of the day. Your friend, what did he do? He stole pop off. So you have to step it down and say no, let him restore several fold you now get to the new covenant. He says forgive. Do you understand now? So it's a progression. It's not a contradiction. So I use a typical example for you. If you are supposed to. No even you here See you right now. Some of you are even tired. I said, just get to the conclusion. And Moses will teach these guys for days.

Days after telling them God, you know, in Exodus, he taught them and taught them and taught them. He was telling them, Genesis, God is love. There should be no strife for we be brethren. Did you see how can Cain kill Abel? That's anger. Anger is murderous. Say, yeah, he killed him. Righteous blood. It's true. As soon as he left them, we can't tarry. Say, Aaron, let's worship an idol. Those are the people in your church. So you need to realize, in their world, was God being a moral tyrant? No, we have seen that before them we had. The heroes of the faith were not morally upright guys, 100%. So that was not the issue. The issue was the hardness of their heart. Who's following this? Well, so it's not a contradiction, it is just a progression. Do you know that? Okay, look at Joshua.

So you have you that had harsh hearts. So before we get to Joshua, Ezekiel 36, 26, 27 now says, A new heart will I give you, a new spirit will I put within you? I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh and I will give you a heart of flesh. I will cause my spirit to walk within you. And my statutes and my judgments, you will do them. That was where the issue was said. I will cleanse you from all your idols and flesh and I'll make you clean. I'll wash you. This is what happens at a new birth. Now look at people that are even born again today. Don't you see people that are born again, don't you see how sometimes they like cruel justice even now because in their own world too, they have not been sanctified.

Now imagine 3 million people who are used to life for life. Eye for an eye. If you don't put it in there, let me ask, if you don't put it in the laws, would they do it? They would do it. That's what they were doing. That's why it's called the law of sin and death. And Paul said, sin was in the world before the law came. Do you understand it now? So sin, the law only made sin exceedingly sinful. Sin was in the world. So look at Joshua 10, 22, 23. So we must understand it in their world. You need to realize what was going on. So when Paul says it was a schoolmaster to lead us or bring us to Christ, then said Joshua, open the mouth of the cave and bring out Those flagships unto me out of the cave they did.

So he brought out the five kings of the north of the cave. The king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jammu, the king of Lashes and the king of Eglon. And it came to pass when the king Joshua called and come to cal and said, put your feet upon the necks of their. And he came here and put their feet on the necks of the kings. And he says, fear not, come with his faith, be strong and be of good courage. For the Lord will do all to your enemies against that you fight. Then he smote them and slew them and hanging upon five trees. And they were hanging upon the trees until the evening came to pass. At the time of the going of the Judah covenant.

They took them down off the trees and carried them to the cave when they had been hid. And they laid great stones in the king's mouth. Remain there until this day. Now, is it God that made him like that? Nope. Just like we knew Moses before he gave the law. And this is a good disciple. Do you get it? So just like Peter, if Jesus was not there to heal Marcus, you know there is no way you will say that Jesus didn't make him do it. And anyway, if somebody comes against your master and you bring out his sword and you cut the person's ear, even today you two, you say that guy, he loves, even you will say man, that guy stood up for him, man, he stood up for him. That is even in your own world. What can we do?

So that means God is still trying even until this day. Did you know about Moses anger before he gave the law? You did. Did. And the Bible is honest enough for you to see it. And what did he do at the end again that made him not enter the land? The same anger. That is the context of the personalities. So but. But when you look at Moses and Joshua, for example, their. Their temperaments was relative. Relatively better than their own world. That means in the world they were in, they had the way of justice, they had the ways, they revenged. They had their own worship patterns which included sacrifices. Eventually God will say the sacrifice I desire is your life. But if they pass through offering animals till they said, look, I don't want this, what I need is you.

I like that song by Don. Well, when you lift your hands up high, you know that song Praise looks good on you. Are you like What I desire is your life. I'm not asking for things, but it took a while to understand it. If you are putting this every Year and year in, year out. It shows it never took away sins. It was only a reminder. So you can actually sit down, read the Old Testament and understand why the epistles wrote what they wrote. It's just by reading it in their context, they had their social structure, they had the way they thought was, it wasn't new. So now, if I say go to.

If I tell you now that we are going to fight war, if I say, okay, let me say now, if I tell you that we are going to wage war, there's a place now that they worship idols, they have homosexuality, open sex and they're into idolatry. They hate Christianity. And I say we are going there to fight war. You know what you will believe is that we are going to pray and preach. Why? Many reasons. Number one, even in your normal world, you wouldn't think I'm asking you to go there. You know, you may end up in jail. Number two, you have read scripture, your mind has adjusted to the war we are going to do is to preach and pray. Now imagine if God says, I want you to go into nations of the earth and fight war against idolatry.

And you are in Egypt, you just get guns. So when Jesus came, the apostles understood it. Fight the good fight of faith. For the weapons of our warfare are not canal but mighty through God to the pulling down of strongholds, the whole armor of God. But in their own world they will bring out his sword, not the sword of the spirit, the very thing that Cain did. They were doing injustice. So Moses permitted. We know the ideal, Genesis 1 and 2 and the rebuke of Cain in Genesis 4 shows us the ideal. But until the ideal we have to permit. Let me ask you a question, and this is very key. Assuming God did not give them any laws through Moses or Moses is not giving them any laws at all, would they still have taken eye for an eye? Yes.

So that is why it is called the law of sin and death. Jesus now comes and interprets it that if the same law says you love your neighbor as yourself and somebody should offend you, the eye you will remove is the eye offense. He didn't read any external book. He only read the same laws to explain itself. So we must know from the ideal to the temporary. All the sacrifices were temporary, all the temple was temporary. So whether it's the justice system, the social system, that was just what he could do at that time. So gradually God will start to incorporate the light of his word using their practices into their lives. So when Jesus came and he spoke about worship. Even the prophets had mentioned it. Isaiah said, look, it's not about sacrifices of idols. I mean sacrifice of animals.

It's a sacrifice of mercy, justice and fairness, which negates what they saw as justice in their. You can add this quickly and say, therefore God took incremental steps that consummated in the person of Jesus. God's ideal is always at the beginning. By the time we look at the historical things. I'm going to read some of the laws today to you. I guess on Tuesday or Monday. You see, they were very harsh. When you compare it to what Israel was now told to do, they were flying in love. Therefore, it becomes dishonest for any scholar to say that Christianity or religion is responsible for hatred. That is preposterous. We find people in the western world who are atheists kill others in China and North Korea where they don't allow any worship of any being. They are as brutal and as wicked.

Stalin was an atheist and he killed people in their hundreds of thousands. Mouse a song did the same thing. We can go on and on. Faith and worship is not the reason for genocide. Sin is reason for genocide. So if you say Israel killed people, you should also ask a question. Were there nations killing people? Yeah. Did nations attack Israel? Yes. Did they retaliate? Yes. Was retaliation in their world wrong? No. Is that God's ideal? No. What is God's ideal? To war. By the gospel. Did he give that duty to Israel? Yes. Was Israel violent? Yes. Did God permit it? There was nothing he could do. Did they say he was the one that strengthened them? What will he do? He has told them he's their God.

So it is largely unfair to now begin to isolate what happened in Israel as though Israel was the entire world. Let me see how they are following what I'm saying here. So in their world, Israel was a mild version. Child sacrifices were done by the molechs and it was not because they worshiped Jehovah, human sacrifices. And God said, don't do it. Israel grew up in a community where children sacrifices were done and God said, you shouldn't do it. For example, the use of the sheep was an Ittite law. H I W T I T We're going to see that law. God simply introduced it to explain what he would do. That's why till tomorrow Jesus is called the Lamb of God and all that. Because that was the culture of their day. That is how they gave sacrifices. That's how they showed worship.

Therefore, if we understand that Genesis 1 and 2 were parabolic explanations of Scripture, light and darkness, heaven and earth, tree or knowledge of good and evil. We therefore should know that we ought to read the Old Testament more carefully again within the context. I'll repeat what I said earlier before you say that God created chauvinism and all that, and maybe racism. Moses gave you Genesis 1 and says that God made every man in one man. That is the beginning. Male and female created Eden. Why do you think Moses is saying that when he was in a world that dehumanized women and. And he writes that this is the ideal male and female created he them.