I submit that the concept of distorting this view of God or this Distorted view of God was done majorly by those who either Translated the Bible wrongly 1 or I was now reinforced by the Reformed theology. In not making God look weak, they made him evil. Even in today's world, Paul will be faced with speaking to the Jews and saying the cross is a scandal. Why is it a scandal in the heart of the Jew that does not believe? Because when you don't believe, wickedness will be in your heart. So your view of a supreme God will be a tyrant. So faith has an image of God. Doubt has an image of God. Unbelief has an image of God. In 2 Corinthians 4:44 3:4. Sorry.

Paul says, if our gospel be hid, is hid in them who are lost, in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them that believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine on them. I believe on Thursday we'll look at how Satan walks through these theologies. You may not know the import because you haven't felt it. And you will see that a lot of religions, a lot of practices, even globally, come from misinterpreting scriptures. I want to read tatian again. T a t I a n. It says God is not the cause of death or any other evil. Satan says concerning sickness. He says, being harmed with the breastplate of the celestial spirit, he will be able to preserve all that is encompassed by it.

There are indeed diseases and disturbances of the matter that is in us. But when such things happen, demons ascribe the reasons of those things to themselves and approach a man whenever diseases lays hold of him. Sometimes they disturb the habit of the body by tempest or folly. But being smitten by the word God, they depart in terror and the sick man is healed. So he said, look, sickness can happen when the physical body is imbalanced and demons can come alongside. But when God's word is spoken, those demons depart. So there was no theology, not a theology that says God uses evil. That theology is more recent. Tertullian. Tertullian, the fellow usually acknowledged to have come of doctrine of Trinity, says sicknesses and evils come by fallen angels who fell by their own free will. It says their great business is to ruin mankind.

So from the very first spiritual wickedness sought our destruction. They inflict accordingly upon our bodies, sicknesses, diseases, and other grievous calamities, while by violent assaults they hurried the soul into sudden and extraordinary excess. So it was never believed, never thought, never assumed, that God did anything like. Two things were fundamental in the early church fathers that our bodies is matter, it can break down. And while it is broken down, demons come to reinforce it. So even though we say it's not God that brings sicknesses, it's not correct to say demons are behind every sickness. No, but demons do walk with sickness and can inflict it. Oregon. Who also live between AD 185 AD 254, he said Satan. Sorry. Jesus died to free men from Satan and from faithful Satanic forces. He said wicked spirits, which are the causes of plagues, barrenness, tempests, similar calamities.

It says Jesus died a voluntary death for the common good so that he might remove these wicked spirits. So it goes further to say, will they say such events actually happen and that no credit is to be attached to that account which makes this so called man to have died to ensure the destruction of a mighty evil spirit, the ruler of evil spirit who had been in subjection all the souls of men upon the earth. Origen never believed that evils were the work of God. He simply said Jesus came to remove them. So what was unanimous was that even though God allowed it, grammatically speaking, God never did it. It's therefore important that this shouldn't be glossed over. We must trace the root of that thinking pattern. We have said it is their ability to properly interpret the Bible.

It is the ability to understand the tenses. Till today, Reformed theologians still manipulate acts 2:23. Look at it. Acts 2:23. The predeterminate counsel of God, foreknowledge of God you have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. So we said, the word predeterminate doesn't mean to destine. It simply means something that he had seen, he had known. Then where he determines it is that he gave himself over to them. So every time I see God say something I must exploit. Did he determine this or is he foreseeing it? Did he? Now in the death of Jesus we find what God determined He gave his Son. What he did not determine was their wickedness. He didn't determine their wicked hands, but he determined to give himself over. Isaiah said, God personally did it. Isaiah 53, verse 4 and 10. But Isaiah's language is permissive.

One of the early church fathers, Justin Matthias, A.D. 100 to A.D. 165, said about Isaiah 53. He said, and so much is written for the sake of proving that Jesus the Christ is the Son of God and his apostle, being of the old, the world, and appearing sometimes in the form of fire. Sometimes the likeness of angels, but now by the will of God, having become man for the human sake, he endured all the sufferings which the devils instigated senseless Jews to inflict upon him. I repeat that Calvinism is a herald. There is nowhere in the history of church writings up till Augustinian to a point that Calvin and some Luther that gives that thinking that God determined ordained evil. These men were equal interpreters of scripture, students of Paul, students of John.

Of course, when we look at the history of the death of Jesus, even before the book of Acts, Luke 22, Luke 23, First Corinthians 2, 6, 8, we see it clearly. Satan came into Judas. Luke 22:53 this is your hour and the power of darkness. First Corinthians 2:8. Had the princes of the world known this, they would not have crucified. Where is the wisdom of God? The wisdom of God is to turn their evil into his power. Not to make their evil then bring power out of it. No, All these details must be taught by the teacher of Scriptures. Don't gloss over it. Don't leave people thinking, okay, so God, they sinned against God, so God now wants to be at peace. God now says, okay, since you guys can't do it, let me bring my son.

The moment we explain the atonement of Jesus as pacifying God, we throw God's true character out of the window. In teaching redemption and the Gospel, you and I must identify the characters. Where is God standing here? Where is man? Where is the devil? Where is sin? Romans 8:32. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? That means in the evil of the death of Christ, he says, why did you abandon me to this evil? Why did you abandon me? So God could not have been said to have abandoned what he did. Psalm 22, verse 1, Mark 27, verse 46. So Tertullian origin, Origen, Joseph, Matthias, all use the permissive tenses of the Old Testament in their writings.

When God announces a curse in Genesis 3, he was only telling man the consequences of his disobedience. God cannot be the one who inflicts pain, then sets free. You find hyper Calvinists write stuff like God decrees what God permits to bring the will of God to pass. They go as far to say that God decreed sin in a permissive way because that is the way he can justify his elect. What kind of doctrine is that? And you and I mustn't lie low. We have millions in the world that require Proper explanation of scripture, painstaking, no rushing. I tell someone yesterday, don't answer that question now. He said somebody, the wife of a president in Africa sent him a text and said, how can God ordain slavery? And gave him all the slavery text, all the go and destroy the entire city text.

Then said that even Paul said, if you're a slave, your boss, you should do anything. Your boss said, even if it hurts you say, can you imagine? And the truth of the matter is this, which you and I, I'm not in this yet. I'll take this. On Thursday, when they were taking slaves out of Africa, hear me well. Whilst the slaves were put in one room, church service was going another room. The slave masters were using scripture, Or can we say twisted scriptures. So imagine the heart of the people they were taking away. How would they see God? Yet at the very heart of the abolition of slave trade is also scripture. So it is not an easy job as you are thinking. So you can imagine.

So the guy said, look, that they were doing church service and clamping people to, you know, taking them across the sea. And so million people died. And so the woman sent it to this. And I told him, I said, don't answer that question. He said, I should give him answer. I said, me, I'm still explaining it. Let me talk like a New Testament grace preacher. That's the Old Testament. Does that make sense? That's the Old Testament. Like I said, let God pay for his sins first before he tells us to pay for our own. That's the first thing, the only thing I said to him. I said, well, in the days of Paul, the use of slave had changed though that the way you use slave now is somebody, they go to your village, kite everybody, put you inside the bus and say,

In the days of Paul, if you are owing money, the guy will say, come and start working for me to pay your money. It is that word slave is used also somebody who works for somebody else. That's why Jesus is called slave. Said, oh, okay. So explain that at least for the first Timothy six, the other ones. I have many things to say to you now, but you can never bear any. I say, how be it when our book is done, it will guide you into all of the truth. He said, when I said, you are still impatient. You know, we are so impatient. How can you answer a question like that quickly? How? The guy has given you a fundamental thing and you are just saying. I said, as they were behind apartheid South Africa, The Leaders were members of the Reformed Church.

That's why anotheta text Bible has commentaries that justifies racial discrimination. So theology is not as we think. Theology is all about come to church. Is that so? Big deal. But no. The very reason people go to church is theology. The very reason why they don't even like Bible study is theology. Theology need not be correct. Theology can be wrong. Theology can be right. So theology can be right, can be wrong. It can be right. Theology can be the very reason. In fact, don't let me get to that part yet. And these are things we must comment about. I told you last time we bought the entire lockdown that the Crusades people don't even know what crusade means. Crusade was literally taking of lives, wars. And they had their theology.

So it means that these folks aside Paul and the people that we recognize today understood the permissive tenses of the Old Testament books. One thing that is clear is that the condition of disobedience was a factor in the writings of the Jewish fathers. I mean the early church fathers. Let me read something by Tertullian. Up to the fall of man. Therefore, from the beginning God was simply good. After that he became a judge. Both severe and as the marchioness will have it, cruel woman is at once condemned to bring forth in sorrow and to serve her husband. Genesis 3:16. Although before she had heard without pain the increase of her race, proclaimed with the blessing, increase and multiply immediately. The earth is also cursed. Henceforth it is to man to ground. Let me just run out so that we don't take much time.

The one issuing from him. And a man is faced with two things. What came from God and what God admits what he permits. Then by then nature will have been rightly permitted his goodness to have gone on inoperative, nor the cause have allowed his severity to have escaped in disguise or concealment. Disobedience is therefore a way to read the Old Testament books. You must read it in the light of disobedience. Look at 1st Kings 11:14. 1St Kings 11:14. And the Lord stirred up an adversary unto Solomon. We know clearly that it is Satan that did that. An Edomite became an army or an enemy. God took responsibility. In the grammar used, it was clear that Solomon's idolatry and sin opened the door for Satan. Just like Job. We must learn to interpret it well. What happened? Something must have happened before. Something happened.