And we said that what he simply did was he tried to step down what they were doing and use it in an incremental fashion. And I said it. And in. Last time we looked at the law was our school Master Pat. We said it means that where you bring up somebody to an expected end and it's gradual. The same way you back a child, you still want him to walk the same way. You, you know, use this and that just to come out of it. And so the law was just a schoolmaster gradual. And Paul said that to say, look, the law was for a time. And just like the schoolmaster and I asked somebody who understood that word, she said, it's actually like a, an incremental steps of knowledge that you keep going gradually.

The way, the way you move from creche, I hope you went to creche, that is now imagine that as the law. You, you are so from there, primary school, secondary school, etc. Etc. That is, you are gradually taking them to somewhere, but you can't start at once. I would say that look at us today, even born again, born of the spirit. What else are you? New creation, righteousness of God. I am who he says I am. I realize as you think of me, you're your word. Yet I don't want to say it yet. I believe in you. But you know, what I'm trying to say is yet incremental. If some of you say, I know, I'll get there, born again, I know I'll get there. I know, I know. Now imagine bringing people out of a nasty brutish, you know, error.

Moses was separating people. The way to say, don't fight again, key one. I mean, that was just the way it was done. You get it? And you know, he was justified. Let me give you an example. The king just thinks that, okay, some people are increasing. How do we reduce their population? He says, every son kill them. That was the law. That was how they acted. Hey, how do we do it? The spiritual advice now you just boys you know, we like women. Keep the women. So just boys. Okay, so take out all the boys. What about from the womb? Maybe that was Egypt. Egypt was not the only country. In fact, at that point, it was the most civilized. And Moses schooled in their universities. And they didn't go on strike. How did I know? How will you go on strike?

Somebody takes children from the womb. You know when they say ipps, You will go to lectures with guns. They say, what I'll do for you? I'll cut you. What? What do you use, right or left hand? You say right hand. I'll cut the left one. So that you will use the right to teach. I so just call the right and say, You understand? So that is how they operated. Now you are taking a nation out of that. They're not even born again. How do you control them? You just say, oh, you're what the world says you are. You can do what the world says you are. They say, yes, we can kill. Do you understand? So that is the context. So it's unfair to just think that it was not God that gave the laws in Egypt, for example.

So it's unfair to now situate God in the midst of what human beings were doing without him. Let's go to Romans 5. Hope you are learning something. And verse 12. Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin, you know, the word esekomi wasn't there before. And the only way you can know that is Genesis 1 and 2. Are you together? So Paul has given you context again. Genesis 1 and 2, sin was not in the world, but Genesis 1 and 2, everything was good. That's what God did. Genesis 3. Sin came, and so death passed upon all men for all that sinned. For until the law. Pay attention. 13. Until the law, what was in the world? Sin was in the world. And sin is not imputed where there is no law.

So the law was a regulation of sin. I've seen some pretending grace touts or grace area boys, you know, you have area boys. Done, done, done, done. It is done, done, done. Like mafia. I don't believe in fast. I say I can see. Do you see the way you think? This kind goeth not. He said sin was in the world before the law. That shows you the law was meant to gradually, you get it, that gradual progression from sin. Sin was in the world. Sin was without the law. So sin was in the world. Okay, so by using the word esekomi, we said that means it wasn't there before verse 12, the word cosmon in the world refers to human activities. So verse 13 it is not imputed. And which means to charge it, to call it wrong.

To call it wrong, which means the act of killing, the act of sin was not imputed. Apollo's basically giving you the background of Genesis. I'm sorry, Exodus. There was sin in Genesis, okay, but there was no law. There was sin in Genesis. It doesn't mean it was not a sin. Elojo, he had already defined what sin is. So in verse 20 critical. Let's take verse 20 together. Let's read it together. Moreover, okay, 19 is key. He says, for as by one man's disobedience, many were made, which means they were put in a position to sinners, which is where you have ordained. That's your choice now. To do or not to appoint it. That's the word. Then it says, by the obedience of one, many shall be made, not created. God doesn't create sinners. They were made by what somebody has done.

So Adam became an example. Jesus also became what example? So Adam is an example, just an example. Therefore is a man's choice to follow the pattern. Moreover, verse 20, the law entered. Now, Paul, I'd like to pay attention here. Paul doesn't use a sekomai. He uses the word para. A sekomai. P A R A I S E R C H O M A I. Now I know you know what para means. Para is what beside. So came in beside. Now why would you use para here? Because he had told you sin had entered. So sin entered, and then the law now entered alongside. So the law came. Besides in para.

Now, I checked that phrase and I saw it used in Galatians 2:4, where Paul, the same writer, says, because of false brethren unawares brought in, they came in false bread just came in unawares, they came in beside. He says, therefore what happened? What's the effect of Romans 5:20? That the offense might abound pleonazzo. It might abound inner pleonazo. H I n a P L E O N a Z o Paul will use in Romans 6:1, shall we continue saying that grace may abound? 2Nd Corinthians 4:15, 2nd Corinthians 8:15 and Philippians 4:17. So simply means that the law, what the law did was to pronounce by stepping down what men were already doing. What the law has done is to show it. Pay attention, please. Don't forget the law is a schoolmaster. Incremental adaptation to that which is good.

And Jesus said that what is about the law eventually is love God with all your heart, soul and mind, and love your neighbor as yourself. So to get to that point are incremental steps. Who's following what I'm saying here? Incremental steps. And so he says that those steps were put in place so that sin will be pronounced, it will be abound. It will abound. You will see it in his fullness. So we can say this, therefore, that sin was in the world, death was in the world. Again, the language there is to personify sin like a person, death like a person. Again, the background here. Don't forget Romans 1:18 to 32. That's just for another study. We've done this before where he says that people held the truth of God in righteousness and. Professing themselves to be wise.

22 They became fools and all of that. So you see that idolatry cannot exist without the knowledge of God. I've said that to you many times. Idolatry shows that the Gospel had been there because it takes a conscious and awareness of deity to create a man made object. Everybody knew that when you put something and say we worship this, you knew you did it. So that means you are trying to replace someone, that his consciousness is in your heart or has been said to you. That's why Paul says it's not far from us. Acts 17, 27 and 28. Therefore, quickly let's add this. That means the Old Testament laws, I put it in plural now, was not given in a vacuum. It wasn't like there was nothing. Then the laws were given. No, there was sin, so it was not given in the vacuum.

There was a reason and I gave you a background. I think I said that we have interpretation of status as lawyers. We have three. We have literal rule. Then we have. What's the second one? No, no, golden rule. Sorry, literal rule. Thank you for the lawyers are here. Then a third is a mischief rule where you say, okay, what was it intending to correct? And then they go back. Sometimes when judges, when they lose sight of. Maybe this seems to be a vacuum somewhere we call it a lacuna where what is this wasn't provided for. Then they say, okay, what was the issue that this law was trying to correct? So oftentimes you have what you call functional study. You have the 1999 Constitution, which we are battling with a lot in Nigeria. And I told you why we are battling it.

It was done to put a bachelor in power. So that's why there's A lot of power in the center because it was done that way. They call you chief security officer in your state but you have to call the IG to have a police officer for state. I don't know, I think that's just ceremony. I just have a badge. So all kind of things. The revenue was a lot of power in the center so that he can keep pulling the strings. He wanted to leave military rule and remain in charge like a. Like, I mean do democracy. He pretends he was voted for. You know, I may remember the Abacha million match. Don't be scared. Abacha is gone. Namdi Kanu and all of that. No, no. Is that his name? Nam?

No, there's another Kano now there's a Nandi Kano that was there 1 million match that said you would die if Abacha is not president, has died, is still alive. So obviously the challenge was that they need to understand. Then they said with the people so very astute lawyers had said that those were experienced. Rotimi Williams also said it and they said this is a fraud. Nobody gathered to write this concession. This was done in the chambers of the former military ruler. And you know all that before that we had the 93 constitution again 89 sorry, which again was by another military ruler because that also wanted to be president for life.

Before then we had a 79 constitution which is a bit genuine in the sense of though the person was president when that was done, I want to mention his name that was around. They had people come together, they try to change the initial constitution which was majorly a republican one parliamentarian. Then you choose your prime minister from among those who are your lawmakers, said no, let's adopt the American Constitution and all of that. So eventually when a judge wants to interpret and he thinks that there's a problem, he will go to what was the Source of this Law 1. What was he trying to correct? Okay, we're trying to correct. So so and so in an old constitution they go there. Then they will know the reason why it was drafted.

I said that to say we need to therefore say what was Moses trying to correct? What was he trying to change? We've already seen that in Egypt if you want to reduce population, you kill children for you. That is bestial. You can see all the grammar now. This is against human rights. This is repugnant to natural justice. This is preposterous. Bestial. It is absolutely ridiculous. Because you should see the children are living beings. They're persons and they have their own rights. That's on cnn. But the truth is, you can save that today because you are enlightened. Then the mothers will not even feel anything. Just say, all hail the king. Why? Because if our next door neighbor sees a cooking pot, she can take the cooking pot and put an egg. Oh, what are you doing? So my cooking pot. Oh, okay.

So do you understand? So sin was in the world. And that background is critical in our understanding of the laws of Moses. So therefore, we need to do a little research on the Eastern laws, or call it the Near Eastern laws, barbarism, as it were. Archaic laws. We're going to make some references today. For example, you see some very strange portions. I know you must have encountered people that will quote it to you. Leviticus 29, for example, you have. For everyone that curses, come and read this one and just try to close your Bible and wonder what's going on. Leviticus 29, we're going to read a couple of them. For everyone that curses his father, his mother shall be surely put to death. How about that? He that curses his father or his mother, his blood shall be upon him. You know, that's.