Blessed be the name of the Lord. Job 2, verse 3. Although you moved me against him. Look at that phrase. To destroy him without a curse. So you moved me against him to destroy him. So put a pronoun there. You move me against him. Is it more of you move me against him or you move him against me. Because if there's an accusation accuser, one would twist facts. It will be Satan twisting facts, Job accepting it, and God being the victim of the accusation. Again, we find an idiot. Move me against him. Then he says to destroy him. So who destroyed him without a curse? Satan. Skin for skin. Touch his bone. Look at verse six. He is in your hand. Save his life. In the two instances we find God protecting Job, whether it's Job one or two.

In the two instances it is save his life or I will save his life. And then Job had sickness. So two things have come out. Natural disasters, accidents, and God's protection for sickness also and God's protection in job 42. So what the book of Job affords us to do is to understand grammar. Job 42, verse 10, verse 11 precisely, or 1011. Well, we do. The Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. And verse 11 may bemoaned and covenant over all the evil that the Lord had brought upon him. So at the root of evil in the world, Genesis 3:1:3, which is seen, we find a diabolic deceiver, the devil. So like we said, Ezra equally has helped us in clarifying language.

So Job will be something you and I would need to read well to understand that many times in writing, the very actor is not mentioned in Job. Satan is not mentioned at all by the conversants, not even by Job. So the actor may necessarily not be the speaker and the speaker may not be the actor. Now you don't listen. You don't sit back and guess it all. You only was read patiently to understand it. Ezra equally a teacher of those days, scribe, he obviously taught this idiom principle, obvious because they had been to different lands, I think Babylon. And he shows in his tenses that it's not God. 2Nd Psalm 24:1. We read it earlier, which was written 1120 B.C. Then we now have him rewrite 2nd Chronicles 20, where Ezra mentions that it is Satan that moved.

Now look at the same word, Satan moved. Yet because God was involved, God is mentioned. First Chronicles 21:1. This was almost 600 years after. So which means that in writings, Ezra obviously wrote closer to the time of Jesus. So by that time he had a bit of more influence in grammar and was able to elicit or sorry to maybe put out that idiom in a better way. So it's closer home than the writer of second Samuel. So we've been in Babylon. It has helped a bit of how Ezra will write. So rather than use the idiom principle of The Hebrewism of not mentioning the actor, mentioning in metonymy somebody who didn't do anything. It seems that Satan did it, which is closer to the way we will talk today. Like I said, the permissive verbs and tenses is a core component of Hebrew writing.

How did early Jewish writers interpret scriptures? Again, the language of their day presupposes that they are able to understand how in today's world we will understand how what they were saying. So you have to merge two worlds. I'm repeating that for emphasis again to get the meaning of text. We have another very interesting story. Exodus 4:24, 26. It came to pass now this was after Moses. God had appeared to Moses, sent him to Egypt. Moses, I think I've explained this in one of these series before. It came to pass, by the way, in the inn and the lord met him. Yeah. 23. Okay. Verse 23, Let my son go and he may serve me. If thou refuse to let him go, build, I will slay thy son, even thy firstborn. This is to Pharaoh. 24.

It came to pass by the way in the inn that the Lord met him and sought to kill him. Then Zipporah took a sharp stone and cut off the foreskin of her son and cast a zara and said, surely a bloody husband thou art to me, and so let him go. Then she said, a bloody husband thou art, because of the circumcision. So look at that phrase. And the Lord met him and sought to kill him. So we are found with a troubling position, a very difficult position. Does this mean that God wanted to kill Moses? The truth is, oftentimes the phrase Elohim refers to non. Well, refers to human judges, refers to spiritual deities. So the first probability is a demon, an evil spirit, sought to kill him. That's the first one and very probable.

Because the concept of the death of the firstborn, which is the prior comment, has been found to be the work of the destroyer. Ancient interpreters came to this conclusion that it couldn't have been God who sought to kill Moses. They said, well, if God at all wanted to kill, he will not seek to do it. Then you will escape it. He will simply have done it by the way he is presented. Then it simply means it might not be God that was being referred to here. This will present us with another challenge of finding out where is the Elohim from the Book of Hebrews. The Book of Job has given us a picture already that and Paul mentioned it, that demons and demonic activity will present itself. Like angels, they will equally have appearances and actions very similar.

So we have a question to answer. Was the angel of Satan or the angel of death demonic? Yes. Was it the devil? Yes. Why is he called angel? Because it has the an appearance of one. So we will find demonic activity vis a vis or in the midst of God's saving acts and power. I want to read from the Targum. The Targum is again Jewish writings explanations of the Old Testament. A fragment of the Tagum of Exodus 4:26. That is things you know, written before New Testament era. How strong is this blood of circumcision? It rescued this bridegroom from the angel of death. So Jewish sources before now identified the angels. I'm very careful about these sources because I don't really want them in our materials.

No doubt when people like Paul now says the last enemy is dead, 1 Corinthians 15:26 or Hebrews 2:14 is not their creation. That was already an explanation of Jewish writers even before the early apostles. In another material, oftentimes called the Wisdom of Solomon, a book that came in 200 years before Jesus, he says, for God created man to be mortal and made him to be an image of his own eternity. Nevertheless, because of the envy of the devil came death to the world. That they that do hold of his sight do find it so. Jewish interpreters had always interpreted the devil. So we are incorrect to say the devil was not known. The grammar did not accommodate the devil, and that is out of reverence and the awe of God. That is why the devil is used as serpent and all sorts of descriptions.

Heli Jews mentioned Satan's name as Samael, and this is Samuel. S a F a S a M A E l is referred to as the author of death. In one of the works of the early Jewish scholars, he says that by Samuel Samael, the angel of death, they understand Satan, which he proves from the words of their wise men, who say in some places that Satan would have hindered Abraham from sacrificing of Isaac and in others that Samael had done this, which proves that it is one and the same by who by both names is intended. And therefore they usually call him Bin B I n the wicked Samael, the prince of all the devils, and say, Samael has brought death upon all the world. These are things written before Jesus came.

In the Jewish community also it was agreed that death was the work of Satan, and one of their writings is like this. But if the devil be represented as exercising an influence over all the heels of human life, he still more especially represented as exerting his power over. Over our death, the last and the most formidable of all our woes. It is believed that Paul picked that phrase from this Jewish interpretation. The Jews were impressed with the ideas of this kind. Nay, they did not satisfy themselves with the general notions of this subject. They entered into the detail. They said that the devil, to whom they gave the name of Samael, had the empire of death, that is, power extended so far as to prevent the resurrection of the wicked.

Paul, therefore, in his text is believed to have borrowed from these phrases and also the writer of Hebrews. So there were Jewish scholars before Jesus came who were able to transmit those idioms into their world and never exempted their grammar from including the devil. In fact, they gave him a name Samael mentioned and the word bin B I n. So therefore it is not good a notion to say Satan was not known. It's better to say Satan was not written about or his knowledge was not given much mention. Will be a proper way saying that. So the issue with Satan and his activity is grammar and not ignorance. In another material wisdom one, he says, seek not death in the error of your life, and pull not upon yourselves destruction with the works of your hands.

God has not made death, neither has he pleasure in the destruction of the living. For he created all things that they might have their being. And the generations of the world were healthful, and there is no poison of destruction in them, nor the kingdoms of death upon the earth. So there were already materials in existence, Hebrew scholars now who wrote, interpreting the words of the Old Testament. So the Jews knew God did not create death. In the Targum of the Jewish writings, the angel of Satan or the angel of death was well mentioned. It's believed that they knew they were good and bad angels, that there were angels who carried out the works of evil and angels who carried out the will of God. So in today's world, we say demons.

Now we're going to say we say demons, you know, but those phrases, the word demons. Interestingly, the Jewish writings have his word Elohim, a judge, a being, a strange being, or a mighty being. Therefore it means that what tried to kill Moses in Exodus 4, though the word Elohim was used, was a demon. Exodus 4:24, 26. So the concept. Now I want you to observe something. Exodus426, you have that blood was used circumcision to prevent it. Then Exodus 12, the same thing that already identifies the concept of who passed through the land of Egypt that night. Another book, the book of Jubilees, which is believed to have been written about 200 years before Christ says this are you. You yourselves know that he spoke to you on Mount Sinai.

And what Prince Matthsema m a s t e m a decided to do with you when you were returning into Egypt, did he not with all his power seek to slay you and deliver the Egyptians out of your hand when he saw that you were sent to execute judgment and vengeance on the Egyptians? So that book of Jubilees 48, 2, 3. Already, like I said, these are books. Books before Jesus came, had identified this creature called the devil or this being. And why is it like that? By the time we are getting close to the time of Jesus, those idioms were changed. And so from the Babylon language they were able to situate it in closer today's use of words, where the grammar was able to have a name, an accommodation for the devil, and of course, demons.

Let's go further historically again and quote Jubilees again on the hardening of Pharaoh's heart. Jubilees 48:15 to 17 on the fourteenth day, and on the fifteenth, and on the sixteenth, and on the seventeenth, and on the eighteenth, the prince of Maxima was bound and imprisoned behind the children of Israel, that you might not accuse them. And on the 19th we let them loose that they might help the Egyptians and pursue the children of Israel. And he hardened their heart and made them stubborn. And the device was devised by Yahweh, our sovereign ruler, that he might smite the Egyptians and cast them into the sea. So the hardening of their heart Israel, Egypt and Pharaoh had been known to have been caused by angelic being. So therefore the Calvinist orientation or the Reformed theology that does not separate these actors has not helped the Church.

Much work ought to have been done to find out why. It appears that the New Testament differed in theology. No, it is in language, not theology. The theology is and was the same, but the language was different. If the Bible says God hardened the heart of Pharaoh, it is incumbent on a researcher, a student of the world, a teacher of scriptures, to find out how it happened. What role did he play? We have seen that in the death of Jesus, even though it says he bruised him, we found that he bruised him by not saving him. Therefore it means that God inspired men to write and the languages of the men had idiomatic expression. Is it God's word? Yes, God's word in idioms. Let me ask you, can God's word be idiomatic? Yes, because God will use man's words. In Exodus 12:23.