That's serious, that is, you will kill someone for cursing his spirits. And if you. You grab a hold of that in 2020, I say, imagine this is the word of God, why I'm no longer a Christian. A book and say Leviticus 29. It's preposterous, bestial, repugnant to natural justice, equity and good conscience. This is barbaric. Exactly. It's. I'm trying to get something. It's unique. It's inhuman. Exactly. That's what sin is. But it's in the Bible. Cool down. Is it not in the word of God? Cool down. Is that how you read your school books? Is it the word of God that made Pharaoh ask the midwives to kill children? No. Is it God that inspired Pharaoh to Potiphar to take Joseph as a slave? No. Those who captured Lot, were they prophets? No. You see, you are being dishonest.

That shows you that was already sin's creation. If they give you 3 million people to pastor, you know, even if they are six community church members, you know how many gray hair you are going to have? Don't look at my head. Now. They are not born again. And they grew up in Egypt and you are their pastor, you now have the promise of God. Genesis so. Supposed to regulate them. Or you say, I want you all to do what you see is good for your neighbor in your heart. 3 Million. You are the first person they will kill. Do you understand? So this looks preposterous. How can you cause your dad and mom and then the next things you are killed again? It doesn't tell you who kills. Whether it's the parents is not specified. But we'll find out. Look at another 1.

Leviticus 24:1014. I'm sure that those areas many of us don't even read because Christ has fulfilled it. You know the reason of that? That Christ has done this for you? Do you know the that means we are justifying it as the Christ has done it. So if I curse my parents now, Christ has died for my cursing. Leviticus 24:1014. The son of an Israelite woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel and is the son of this israelish woman and the man of Israel strove together in the camp. Elijah's woman blasphemed the name of the Lord and cursed. And they brought him unto Moses, and his mother's name was Shelomoth, and the daughter of Debri and the tribe of Dan, and they put him in word that the mind of the Lord might be skewed, might be showed them.

And the Lord spoke unto Moses, saying, bring forth him that crossed without the camp, and let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the commissions stone him. Hey. Thou shalt speak of children saying, whoever causes his, God shall bear his soul. That's a Serious 1. Jeremiah 21, Verse 18 to 21. If a man has a stubborn and rebellious son, please pay attention to details here. Which will not obey the voice of his father or the voice of his mother, and that when they have chastened him, he will not hearken unto them. Then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him. Bring him out to the elders of the city and the gates of his place, and he shall say unto the elders of the city, this our son is stubborn and rebellious.

He will not obey our voice. He is a glutton and a drunkard. Then all the men of the city shall stone him with stones and he dies. So shalt thou put evil away from among you and all Israel shall hear and fear. That is that's something a serious case. Should we Read More? Numbers 15. You want to read more? Somebody is saying yes, consistently. Numbers15. I mean, is it the spirit of God that brought about Sharia? And look at and you know the Sharia law is also very interesting and I say this not trying to be anyway against Muslims that is usually tilted against the poor. I'm Going to give you the background of that. It is against the poor. That's how sin is anyway.

Numbers 15:32, 36 While children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks upon the Sabbath day. And they that found him guarding six brought him unto Moses and Aaron and unto congregation. And they put him in word, because it was not declared that this should be done to him. And then the Lord said unto Moses, the man that shall surely the man shall be surely put to death. All the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp. The whole brought him without the camp and stone him with stones. And he died as the Lord commanded. Moses. These are scary things, not obeying Sabbath. For example, on Sunday he went regarding sticks. But I think we will need to look at what Moses is writing from again. Acts 7. Moses was brought up to know these laws.

The Legislation Acts 7 and verse 22 was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians and was mighty in words and deeds. So see Moses as a scholar. A scholar of the laws and practices. Obviously, because he grew up in the king's palace. His today's law. You can call him a scholar. A scholar of law. Yeah, scholar of law. A professor of law. Somebody who is astute in laws. So he knew the laws by heart. He knew what the people practiced by heart. He knew it already. Now that is the scenario he found himself. He's supposed to take a people to a land, supposed to guide them. He's already found out that they're disobedient, they will not obey the gospel and the voice of God, etc.

Of course there's an area we still need to take out, and that is the issue of the word Lord, which is an omnibus statement that we need to clarify. Who is he referring to? So that's something we have to also clarify. But let's leave it the way it is for now and then we'll get there gradually. I want you to have. I'm going to take it gradually for you. I intended this up till July or thereabouts so that you have an understanding. It's not. We're not going to rush it. And then you just. You have an idea. I want you to really understand it as we go into the facts of it. Now I read materials here and there to see the laws existing at that time that Moses must have had knowledge of and was in practice. I'll just give you a few.

There's one called the laws of or Nammu U R N A M U. It's in existence about 2,100 years before Christ. Where the laws of lipid Etsha l I p I t I s h t a r also almost 2000 years before Christ. We are the laws of Eshnuma E s h n u m a the next session I'll give you the laws that were bound in Africa too. Esh n u m a these are written laws, okay? Unlike the African ones that some were written and many of them were just oral tradition. They also had the Babylonian laws. Okay. The one laws of Usman was about 18,000, sorry, 1800 before Christ. Then we have the Babylonian laws of. This is a very key one. Humurabi, hummurabi about 1750, before Christ. Then also another keyword, the Hittite laws.

In fact, this one still has materials in Turkey. Up till today. A few of the things that I checked up to verify were talk materials in Turkey. And again, Turkey is a Gentile nation where Paul had most of his Asian trips. And Hittite laws H I t laws between 1650 and 1200 BC. And you have the Old Testament does make quotes itself around these books. There were books that were in reference or were used as reference and thereabout in the Old Testament at that time. Just trying to. Look at Joshua 10:13 and the sons stood still and the moon stayed until the people had advanced themselves upon their enemies. Is this not written in the book of Jasher? That's verse 13 there. Making references to certain things that books that read. Second Samuel 1:18 has the same. There were books being referred to.

He had made them situation of that. The use of the bow is written in the Book of Jasher. The way they were taught how to use bows. There are books that had all that information. So Moses was that skilled and learned. And therefore we have to put that in mind. So let's again give a background, then we'll go to some of the details. Hopefully. Yeah. So the first thing is we say Genesis 1 and 2 is the ideal. Is that correct? That's the ideal. Genesis 1 and 2 will be the ideal. Genesis 3, you can say man interfered, sin came. So the first thing is that the context of everything in Genesis 1 and 2 and 3, where you say this is the will of God and then this is where man got involved.

And therefore we have a colored impression of God either way from Genesis chapter four downwards upwards. Anyway, that's the first thing you need to realize. The ideal then very critical. The law was never permanent and it was not static. That's the first thing was never permanent, was also not static. The Law was not for every nation. Hope that was clear enough. The law wasn't for every, it was for Israel. So therefore we must evaluate the laws of Moses in the light of the days that they lived. In the light of the days that they lived. Now we have read numbers 1532, 36, the Sabbath breaker is meant to be killed. There are other ones. Leviticus, chapter 10, Where Nadab and Habiu offered what is referred to as strange fire and they were equally killed. And strange fire there typifies idol worship in the temple.

Just take note of that idolatry. Leviticus 24 speaks about slander. 24 Maybe from verse 10 thereabout to blaspheme. Then you have the rebellious son. Jeremy 21 read that earlier. Now don't forget that in Exodus 32, this is just. You had Aaron. This was just after they left Egypt, when they said Moses wasn't around. It didn't take them time to build a golden calf, because that is just something that they were used to. And Aaron, even the priest, you know, equally participated in that. Or Moses prophets. Maybe I say it that way. Numbers 25, you have people who were into idolatry and sexual sins were all destroyed. Maybe the one that should get Your attention is 2nd Samuel 6, verse 1 to 7 Uzzah who touched the ark and then died. I thought he was trying to help out.

Exodus 25, verse 12 to 15 tells you who should bear the ark. And they were meant to be priests. And Exodus 30, verse 4. So Leviticus 10:3 narrator and Abihu offers strain fire. So you have there were laws that they broke. Now Abi offers strange fire idol worship in the temple. Leviticus 10, 2nd Samuel 6, verse 1 to 7 was a violation of Exodus 25, 12, 15 and Exodus 34, the priest should bear the ark. Now let's go into some details. For example, Zerubbab21, the one we read earlier about the rebellious son. Historically speaking, that's from verse 18 to 21. There's no record that ever happened in the Bible. So that's the first thing. We don't have a record that ever happened. And the essence of giving the law was so that all Israel, verse 21 will hear and fear.

So note that and notice that the act of killing the child was as a last resort. And it's for a belligerent child, somebody who is basically just rebellious and all of that. Today you'll find out that the laws have changed in that dimension. You know, rebellious child. And the essence of this, of course, let me explain what they are talking about, he's a gambler, he's a drunkard and a bad influence in the society. So that was how they knew to stop an influence. Now today you have things like deportation. Sometimes you even have citizens who have their citizen revoked. I remember Osama bin Ladin, a citizen was revoked. America also had to do that for some nationals. Very, very extreme measure. And then they revoke the situation and say you are not part of us again.

And they send the person out of the country. So now this is still. That means what is that stopping the influence is still being practiced today. Only that it has been well mitigated. You and I know that even in the epistles we are asked to separate from somebody who is going to spread influence. So understanding the essence of that is that looking at the situation they were in, that was the best available at that point. It wasn't the ideal, never forget that, but it was what was available vis a vis the day. So it was to stop the influence. A drunkard child, rebellious, who was a gambler. Obviously a lot of other things are. So it was meant to say, look, take this guy out of us. This guy should not be one of us. And again, he's a rebellious person.