But that illustration, in the sense of in today's world, can help people's understanding, but without the background of why what that criminal did is an offense. If it's about the judge, then it will leave us with what we had been correcting since. Okay, God is just angry. He's angry that you took his money. He's angry that you broke his law. So he wants to, you know, do justice to you. But that doesn't follow the genealogy we have found. He said, the day of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you should not eat it. The day you eat of it, I will be hungry. No, you will die. So the next narrative is, it is not good that man should be alone, not to who I will make him an Izah.

So God gives judgment. God gives the provision for salvation. For this cause shall a man leave his Father and mankind become one flesh. So why would I be talking about a union that means there was a separation. So the moment you know that this is not history and it doesn't. The moment it's not history, it will not follow a pattern of history. History is, I would say, 1914, 1915, 1916. But when I'm using a parable, I may be referring to. I may start with 1914 and end in 1911. I may start with the problem and end in the solution. I may also start with the solution and end this one I'm saying here. So it is in that light that you read Genesis. So Genesis 2:18 is the solution. Genesis 2:24 is the solution. Genesis 2:16:17 is the problem.

So Genesis 2:18:24 solves the Genesis 3 problem. Now hear this. What now happened? The serpent came and said. The God says, well, you know when the day you eat it, you will be wise. In your eyes you will know between what is good and evil and all of that. And then the man and the woman, they take of it. And their eyes were open, they were naked and all that. And the message of God was in the garden, the cool of the day by the Spirit. That's the word Ruach. And God called her Adam. Where are you? Rhetoric, rhetoric. There was no such. There was no such. The Genesis 2:3 1:3 presents imagery. That is why the only summation, and it's only Paul that pierced that clothes, was to call it disobedience. Sin entered. Okay, sin entered. But by what? Romans 5:19.

Paracoin, disobedience, offense, paraptoma, transgression, parabasis. So listen well, what have you done? Who told you? Because you have done it. This is what is going on. Because you have done it. So sin does not affect God. The concept of sin is what happened to man. It involves God because man is God's creature. So I think I need to rephrase that so that if I say it doesn't affect God, I don't want to be twisted. I simply mean that sin has to do with what happened to man. Now, Disobedience, lies, trickery, all of that Genesis 3. But the manifestation of it, where sin was spelled out was Genesis 4, the very first mention, verse 7. Sin lieth at your door. Please change it. The other time I called it Avon. Avon is another phrase for wickedness. I just, I mixed it up the other day.

Sin. Here is the word chatter. Chatter means loss. A loss or a part. Faulty for something to be faulty. From the word cheta cha is ch a t T T a h, the cheta C h a T.O. Ms. To be faulty. You know the way you buy a phone, then you put it on, then you find out, the bosses aren't working. That is how it is described. Now come to Paul. Paul uses the archer narrative, that is to throw at a target and miss the target. So missing the target. So we must find out what is the target. So if it's missing, what is the target? If it is missing, then what is the target? Let me tell you the danger of streamlining it to the legal. You offend the law. All of that narrative.

It is why we are taught over the years that the blood of Jesus Christ was to satisfy God. While we have the courtroom narrative, God sits and then says, you know you are guilty, so you have to go to jail or you have to die. Then you know, rather than you dying, Jesus now says, don't worry, you see me on the cross for you. Then he dies. Then the wrath of God is satisfied. But where that narrative doesn't see it is that it is God who gave Jesus. So if God is on this other side, where he gives Jesus now, then it can't be justice to be the prosecutor, to be the defender and be the judge. It falls flat every Narrative of justice and judgment. So it is. God is for us what can be against us.

Romans 8:31, I will be with you. So it therefore means that in the redemptive narrative, God is on man's side against an enemy. So the Exodus narrative should revisit all of that. Pharaoh, Israel, God is with Israel against an enemy of bondage and slavery and wickedness. Israel is not in the land, out of the land and all of that. So the atonement narrative, which is biblical, must not be seen as the way we read it today. Atonement, the word illustration, if it is used loosely, will mean to pour libation upon in a temple. But it is used in the Old Testament, the Kofa, the. The mercy seat, is a place of union. It's a place of union where heaven and earth come together.

So atonement, if you look at Romans 5, that should be verse 9 and 10 or so, where it says the atonement, which is actually the reconciliation. So in the day of atonement, what is happening is a union, not a pacifying. And so look at all the words like apocata, lasso, reconciliation. It means to put value and equate, bring together atonement, bring together redemption. I will look at that. Also Redeemer, Kingsman is to unite back with your family. So in understanding the redemption concept, okay, look at the concept that work with it. Redemption, God does bring you out sanctification, he keeps you apart. Atonement, irreconciles. So that pattern of justice for prosecution charges is very. It's a narrow prism that must be well expanded so that your audience doesn't get the wrong idea.

Like the wrath of God was satisfied in the sense of God is angry you did something against him. The question is, what did you do to him? So sin means it is missing. So what is missing? The image of God. The image of God is missing. So man is made to be in the image of God when he is not found in the image of God, when he does not act the image of God, then it is a chatter. Sin lies at your door. So the origin goes back to the faith image. And like two Hebrew words, Selim and Demos, Selem means to print into something. Let me show you that. Numbers 33, verse 52.

When you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before, you destroy all their pictures, destroy all their molten images, and quite possible, all their molten images. So let's look at Egypt. Okay, show me four. Before we go there, show me four. The one is. Verse 5, verse 15 take it therefore, good yourself, that you have no manner of similitude on the day you saw, on the day the Lord spoke to you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire, lest you corrupt yourselves and make you a graven image simulates of any figure, likeness of male or female, likeness of any beast that is on the earth, likeness of any wing fowl that flies in the air, likeness of anything that creeps on the ground. So why does he use serpents?

Serpent will therefore be idolatry to have another image apart from the image of God, of course. What is the image of God? Genesis 1:2 the wind, the Spirit. The Spirit of God. The Ruach New Testament Pneuma so which means there are two things by which God is known and worshipped, His Spirit and his Word, Which also shows us that man is to depend on his word by his Spirit. So when we have Genesis 3 is idolatry, the serpent. But there was no one they were worshipping. It's selfishness. Self is idol worship. Whatever comes from man is idolatry. Whatever is in creation is idolatry. Because it is the spirit of God that quickeneth. It is the Spirit and what God has said. So sin will be selfishness. Self. Self will be without the image of God.

Sin will be to worship the creature rather than the Creator. Romans 1:28, 29, 30. So we have embedded here the concept of S. Sodom and Gomorrah. Their sin is very grievous without the image of God. So what is not found in God? The image of God. They have missed the mark of Matthias. They are short of the glory of God. Romans 3:23 we'll see that as we proceed. And let me just extend it a little bit. You see that this now affected creation, where Paul will say, the old creature groaneth up to now and refers to the body of man. The body of man in its mortality, because it's taken from the dust of the earth. It depicts the fallen world. And this is the reason why the materialism gospel is really ridiculous, because it doesn't depict a fallen world.

There is a falling world. You see that the prophets, even including David, they will use natural disasters to depict judgment of sin, a falling war, you know, to show that something is missing. Yet when they now talk about redemption, they will now replace it with the trees are clapping their hands, the oceans are rolling, creature is praising God, which is figurative but also eschatological. That is, there is coming a time when everything will be renewed and the first signal of that will be the redemption of the physical body. It is what happened to the body, happened to the earth. What will happen to the earth will first of all happen to the physical body. The length of the years of the earth is the length of the years of man's body. Death therefore is from man to the world or to the earth.

Sin therefore affects the earth. The earth is physical, but is run by spiritual laws. So sin affects the earth. So when we have natural disasters, it is a product of a fallen world. So whilst the church is a new earth and the new heavens are the new earth, by the virtue of, spiritually speaking, it will eventually play out in the earth. So we have a falling world, we have winds out of sight, we have suddenly poisonous things, Poisonous creatures, flesh eating creatures. We have all sorts of things to show us in the natural that something has gone wrong. But the prophetic scripture showed that there's coming a time, he says, the lion, and they will sit together in one place, which is nature, will eventually also be restored.

So the eschatological fact of those images you see is that eventually the earth, you know will be renewed and restored. That's not for today though. I just had to mention it. That's why you find let everything that has breath let the everything in creature. Then he praised God. He said, what are you talking about? Yes, it's imagery. But then it's eschatological that when God fulfills what he has said, When Genesis 1:26:28 has happened, and then the old earth is replenished and the old earth is subdued, this is going to happen. So sin therefore should be seen as what has happened to man or what man does. So sin hurts man, it hurts God because he is a creature. How sin affects God is because of his love, nature. It's not selfish. It considers the other person.

We're as creatures and when we are born again, we're as kids. But sin affects man. It's self destruct. Without understanding this fact, we wouldn't know what righteousness is. Diakosunic where we have justice putting things in the right place. So you can't study the soil of righteousness without what was right at the beginning. What did God promise? How is he going to do it? How is it going to play out will be the concept of righteousness. So chatter has its own verb. It's a verb. Genesis 26 and 9, same thing as amateur. Romans 5 and 12. It is a loss in an action, a loss in thought, a loss in deeds. It stems therefore into wickedness. So look at this. Look at the way it plays out. Deuteronomy 30. Moses plays Genesis 3 for us. Life and death, good and evil. Believe, doubt, obey, disobey.

That's why we don't find anything that Adam did or Eve did. But then the next thing is the love law is broken. Cain killed Abel, so the manifestation of that disobedience will now be seen amongst men. You can't have sin without interaction. So that obedience to God will now be seen in a man's conduct amongst men. So sin must have activities. So look at that. Let's break that down. So you have disobedience then. Walking in the flesh. Thou shalt love the Lord your God with all your heart and might. Genesis 2 and 3. Thou shalt love your neighbor as yourself. Genesis 4. In Romans 3:23, Paul says, For all have seen and come short. In the Greek it means to lack. To lack. Matthew 19:20, Mark 10:21. A lot of texts like that explains to lack come short of the glory of God.