Now, is this spiritual or judicial? Very good. So why did he give this judicial law? To achieve a spiritual end, Equity and justice which is not perfect. Do you understand? We'll break it down, don't worry. He gave this so thou shalt not kill. In their world, they had laws like that. So he takes it, amends it to achieve God's righteousness, which is equity. It is never going to be perfect, but it's sufficient for that time. Jesus said, you know what? Now I say to you, before you bring out the knife, don't even be angry. Now this means that verse 22 is what Moses is trying to achieve, Right? Do you understand? But Jesus is saying, we wouldn't need to go through that. Don't even be angry. Because when you are angry. So let me now ask you, is Jesus correcting Moses?

Can we say, is he negating Moses? No. Do you understand? He is showing you what Moses sought to achieve. Do you get it? Do you understand? So it's not even be angry. Don't call anybody fool. It mentions reconciliation. If you bring a gift to the altar. And now look at Jesus, he's mentioning altar even though he knows the temple, God is not there. But if that's what you have, that's what you're going to use to explain. Say drop your gift, go and meet your brother. Say reconcile, argue with diversity quickly. And he went all the. So it goes into reconciliation, that today we now have what you call arbitration. Don't have to go before he just sit down, talk about it. Now you guys can talk about it, discuss it, you can reconcile. We can look at what is the issue.

So because at the end of the day, what the court seeks to achieve is still justice. So it's now Jesus is saying, we can achieve that, that goal without going through these means, reconciliation, justice. Then it says in verse 27, you have heard, thou shall not commit adultery. Now, I'm not saying. I'm saying is even what you look, how do you look then? 29. If your right eye says in your heart, which is verse 28, so we are starting from your heart. Whilst the human laws look at the action, I'm looking at the intention from the heart to the action. If your right eye offendee, that means your right eye there will refer to your thoughts. Okay? Your right hand, your thoughts then. Verse 31.

It has been said, whosoever puts away his wife, let him give the marriage laws of their world, which Moses amended, you know, he changed it, amended it, you know, to. To make it achieve a goal. He says now, I'm now saying to you, except for this course, all right, And I will tell you something. You will see that even Jesus and Paul seem to contradict. And it's not that they contradicted. The truth is that Jesus here has a Jewish audience. And so he is interpreting the marriage laws of Moses. He says, don't put away except for this purpose, but don't forget that the background before now is reconciliation. So if I have achieved reconciliation before, 32, I'm rest assured that the issue of putting away will not exist. We'll see what I'm saying in a moment.

You have heard, thou shalt not forswear thyself, for thou shalt perform unto the Lord thine host. That is just who that. You know, we say, come and swear affidavits so that you keep to your word. He said, you know what? Don't swear by heaven. Let your yes be. Yes, are you there? Let your know be known. So it's simply taking you to the end. Look up, guys. So you see that word Christ is the fulfillment of the law is a wider application. It doesn't mean destroy the law. It actually means, what is it seeking to achieve. Jesus has achieved it. Let me tell you, if you understand what I'm saying here. So that's why Paul says the law was meant for righteousness, to set things right, but it was weak through the flesh. So look at it again.

You have heard, it's been said, an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. Justice. That's Italy. Notice it says, look, resist evil. Do not resist evil. It's always smashing by the right. Turn the left one. There's no balancing of skill here. The man will take you. So he's saying, the concept of do me, I do you. That how we balance the scale, right, is not to revenge. That's how we balance. This is the end point of it. How is the skill balance? 43. You have heard, love your neighbor, hate your enemy. But now I say to you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you. This is the end point. Now pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you, that you may be like your heavenly Father.

Where did the Heavenly Father do this? Cain. Right? And then the nation of Israel. So he said, be like the heavenly Father, who is kind, loving. So Jesus is not correcting. Jesus is fulfilling. It's simply taking us to the end of the law. Therefore, when I read the law of Moses, I must make that clear. So let me now say something here. Even the criminal justice system, the commercial system of Moses, were still meant to achieve spiritual end. Because, as we are going to see shortly, he tried to step down what they were trying to do, or, sorry, what they were used to, by using the law of Christ incrementally, gradually, not perfect, but it is what he was trying to do, is what Jesus said now.

So we must therefore learn to read his laws, the spirit of it, and not the letter of it. What is the spirit of this statement? What is the spirit of this comment? What is the spirit of it? Because what is written right was first spoken. So the spirit of the laws written was spoken by the prophet before Moses. So what is the spirit of this? Why was this given? What is written will not be perfect. All right, because it's like we said, it's a schoolmaster unto Christ. So a few things will take home. Then you go on a short break. Therefore, Paul deliberately goes back to adam in Romans 5:12 to say, Death came by sin came by man. So by that it takes us to Jeremy 30 and Genesis 3:2 and 3. So the law of God is the love of God.

The love of God is the law of God. Notice the very first sin. Am I my brother's keeper? So we said disobedience. Genesis 3, the love law. Genesis 4. So what Moses will achieve in the 612 laws is to be your brother's keeper. Faith in God. Genesis 3, broken in Genesis 3. Love towards others broken in Genesis 4. That will be the righteousness. Or Genesis 12 a reash. So Genesis 13, verse 8. Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and your Israel, because we are brethren. He uses the Genesis 4. Your brother's keeper, let there be no strife. Genesis 4, verse 9. Brother's keeper, we are brethren. So the faith law, the love law. And so what was the issue in Jerusalem, or sorry, in Israel, in the exodus? Jeremy 30.

So I'm going to ask you, when the apostles will open Deuteronomy and Exodus, they will teach the Spirit of the instructions. The goal Christ is the goal of the law to everyone that believes. So we achieve the goal of the law by walking in the Spirit. Does it make sense now? By walking in the Spirit. The goal of the judicial laws, the goal of the criminal laws. The goal is the walk in the spirit, tell me. 30, Verse 6. The Lord thy God will circumcise your hearts and the heart of thy seed to love the Lord thy God with all your heart, with all your soul, that thou mayest live to circumcise your heart. Then he says, it's not far from thee. The word verse 11 is not hidden from thee. It's not far. It's not in heaven that thou shalt say.

Thou shalt go up to heaven for us or bring it down. Bring it unto us that may hear it and do it. It's beyond the sea. And all of that I set before you good and evil. So he sets that scenario, you know, Daniel 32:20. For they are a former generation, children in whom is no faith. The background. So Matthew 19:8 now makes sense. Why then did Moses give a bill of divorcement? Moses, is it clear? Because of the hardness of your heart. Anthropsin sclerocardia pro sclerocardia. Moses, seeing the hardness of your heart, now let me ask you a question. Who was first called hardened heart? Pharaoh? Moses. Because of the unbelief allowed you. So now here we go. The grammar of the giving of the law. Causative or permissive? Permissive. With the intention to gradually take them to the law of God.

So Romans 8, 2, 3, the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has set us free from the law of sin and death. So you can see the law of sin and death. You don't have a place where it is written. You have to take your time to say the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do is in that it was weak through the flesh, through human laws. Is that correct? Is that correct? Through human government, through earthly worship laws, God sending his own Son. So say what the instruction could not do, in that he was weak. Through human laws and governments, God sent his own Son. Son and in the likeness of sinful flesh condemned. I told you, it's not Jesus that was condemned, though it's sin that was condemned in the flesh.

That the righteous requirements of the law, do you see it now might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. So the work is the goal of the law that walk in the Spirit. So as a teacher of God's word, I will be able to find the walk in the Spirit in all the laws. Is it making sense when I can translate it in my world from their world? So the righteousness of God is the goal of the law. The dia kosuna, to make it right. Diakosune is to make it right, to put it in the right position. Abraham believed he was put right. And Abraham lived Right. Let's close with this today. Sorry. Now therefore, a key component in Moses utterances will be found. Exodus 20. Let's run there quickly. 20. Verse 6.

Showing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments. Verse 5. Visiting or taking care of the iniquities of the fathers upon the children to third and fourth generation of them that hate me. Numbers. So Exodus 33, 34. Sorry. Verse 7, verse 6. The Lord God, merciful, gracious, long suffering, abundant in goodness and truth. Now notice verse 6 says the Lord passed by before him and proclaimed. Usually that's used for angel. That's why Stephen said that there was angel always with him. I said, the Lord said, and that angel served Moses. Which means that when we find the angels working because they ministered for him. So every transgression and disobedience. So can we say they were also acting out the judicial system? Yeah. Okay. Because angels cannot be related above man. Angels walk with man. So here we go.

It says that angel the Lord God. The Lord, The Lord God, merciful, gracious, long suffering, abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands. Forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin. And that will by no means clear the clear business iniquity of the. Can you see what King James did? He put guilty there. Their mind is in there. Fathers upon children. So again. Jeremy 5. Notice in numbers. There's a numbers. I don't know why I forgot it. Numbers 14, 18. I beseech you the Lord. Verse 17. Power of my Lord be great according to Thou hast spoken. The Lord is long suffering of great mercy. Forgiving iniquity and transgression by no means clearing the guilty. So that was clearing the guilty. Guilty is King James.

So they have to put their mindset, that is they are not saying I'm going to just leave out the guilty. But that's what he's saying. Visit iniquity of the fathers upon the children third and fourth generation. I beseech thee. Verse 14. The revelation of these people. According to the grace of thy mercy, as thou hast forgiven his people from Egypt, even up till now. Jeremy 5. And verse 9. So therefore it shows you that the destructions that will be found will be metonymies the mediums. What is consistent here is long suffering. It forgives iniquity, it's forgiving kind. Jonah echoed the same thing. So if God is right, the Judge of the heart is right. Okay? That means that if we are to bear his image and have his likeness, there will also be forgiven long suffering. Or we will abhor evil and do righteousness.