Luke 24:25. He said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart, to believe all that the prophets have spoken? Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin at Moses and all the prophets? He expounded to them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself. And we said in Nehemiah, chapter 8, verse 8 and 7 and 8, really, where he said, they caused people to understand the law, the Torah, and the people stood in their place. So they read in the book, in the law of God distinctly. Where we said means interpreting it, and gave the sense and cost them to understand the meaning. And so we have that duty as teachers of Scripture, number one, to understand it, and then very vitally to make others understand it as well.

So we kicked off the other time looking at the importance of knowing how to interpret the text. We said that you have the three factors. The text, sorry, the writer, the author, the text, and the reader. And we said, with who lies the meaning? It should be the author. But there are a lot of limitations on the authority. Then the text. And the text must be given its widest implication. It must be applicable to the reader. I have seen a few examples. We're going to explore a lot of examples, A lot of scriptures, you know, between now, tomorrow and during the week, a lot of scriptures that require more than just face value. So we said that the epistles, therefore can be readily called. Now, please allow me use this first punchline. Statements. Why did I say that?

Because the epistles are texts that are packed. They have a lot of narrations packed in one word or a sentence, that if we're going to explain it to anybody, we cannot forsake the narrative. And that narrative will being able to look into that world, the world of the writer, the world of the text, and of course, the world of your audience today. And you have multiple layers of words. And we also said, can a text have diverse meanings? No. Can it have multiple meanings? Yes. And there are multiple layers of a meaning, not contradictions. So we said, we looked at the Mark 11, First Corinthians 11. What else did we see? First Corinthians 11, two sides, issue of covering of head hair.

You know, I remember then the very easiest option for us then, and it was Rema in those days, we said, he said, cover the head, not the air. I was like a deep inside for many folks that the air covers the head. So what was the point for writing how many verses, knowing that the air covers the head? It's just because of the laziness or writing at the conclusion. I don't know what I just said now. For some folks, it's like a light bulb will come up. Wow. Hey, that guy is deep. I just said rubbish because he's actually talking about covering both the head and the hair. It's just that you need to now look at the world of the writer and today's world and then be able to come to the proper contextual meaning.

So context, therefore is not verses before and verses after. Okay, context. We're going to see a couple of other things. Context involves more than that. It involves looking at the worlds Context involves looking at the narrative behind words. So when you see redemption, it's a shorthand. When you see righteousness. When you see righteousness, for example, and I explored Abraham's righteousness. We said he believed he acted, then he gave. Can you see it? He believed he acted. Justice, equity. Then the way he gave was also called righteous. The way he gave. So we have righteousness in three worlds in just one single person. We said even Phineas by, you know, stopping idolatry, which is not a good act in today's world by using, you know, the sword, he said it's called it was accounted to him to as sedeka chesap tzedekah.

It was put in his account. In fact, Genesis 15:6 was replayed in the act of using this word. You know, so again, you can't. That expands our use of righteousness. Trusting God that Saturday would look at the subject of righteousness on its own and you know, understand it from. Because there's no way you can explain righteousness outside God's promise. So I would rather today call it promised righteousness. Promised justice. If you explain righteousness outside the promise, you are going to have a loose meaning because justice, okay, and righteousness have to do with something that was right. So there must be a promise to the and that's why Paul will say that he might be just and the justifier. So we must explain righteousness. If righteousness starts by being a gift, firstly it is a miss. I don't want to use the word balance.

But then that's right word now is an imbalanced explanation. Righteousness must start with a deed. Okay, then what it does doors and that will help our mode of thinking. So therefore we looked at the subject of. I have a document here that I'm still looking at how we read it together. But. And therefore our mode of using words has to be carefully done. For example, when you have a word like eternal life you know, in today's world, you will say, now you know, there's no word you can have in the. Okay, let's, let's look at it like this. Everybody just look up. There's no word in the Epistles that you must not find in the four Gospels. It may not be the same word, but it must have a corroboration there.

And there's nothing in the four Gospels that must not be in the Law and prophets and equally must not be in Genesis. So let's look at the word eternal life. If I want to explain eternal life today. Okay. Assuming I have a conservative background. Okay, let me, let's look at righteousness first. You know, righteousness from the Reason why, Because NW Kenyon's beautiful rendition of righteousness, lovely. But there was something that I had to take into cognizance over the years, that we are a product of the Reformation. And what I'm saying here is like the burden of my heart. So the Reformation movement was more on righteousness is by faith. Why? Because they had an opposition of works, the indulgence of the Catholic Church. So somehow again, their world tainted their thinking. And so the Reformation was there believe righteousness imputed without works, etc. Etc.

So it almost appears like that now formed a narrow thinking of the way we thought the subject of righteousness was. And so oftentimes we now get into a lot of bumps, bumps, bumps. If you look at the book of Matthew, you will discover that it's just like a peculiar use of the word righteousness. Very peculiar. And even look, so today if you say righteousness, what will come to someone's mind is I was a sinner and God just took the sinner, brought him into the temple or into the family, and said, forget about the past, you are not righteous. But really, that doesn't say the whole picture. Now let's look at the word eternal life because of the way we have thought about it. Again, we said the words must be found in all of the Scriptures.

So if I say eternal life again, the English word doesn't help me. Eternal life for me is eternal life. Let's start from the holiness, brethren. It means that when I die, what I do after I die, then at some point I became a bit confused when I was told, everybody's going to live forever. It depends on where you are going to live it. So I'm wondering, okay, if everybody's going to live forever, then that is eternal life either way. But that's not eternal death. Some said that's eternal life. It's eternal death. Eternal dying, is it gradual dying? No, no, no. You are dead, but that death is going to be alive forever. Excuse me. So it's confusing, but the challenge with that word. Now, the word is ion, Zoe, two words. Now, when they use anion, it means an age. An age.

Now, there are two words, you see, interplayed. There will be. That's in the Greek. You have cosmos, which refers to. When I say cosmopolitan, arranged world, order of events. Order of things. Sorry, Order of things. You know, Romans 5:12, sin entered into the order of things or the. An ordered world. Then you now have Hebrews 11:3. Through faith we understand that the walls. The walls use the word onion. The times, the times. Now, when you say times there, you and I know that it's not referring to calendar, it's referring to specific events. The events were framed by the word of God, anion, or Hebrews 1:3, through whom he made the world. One, two, the wall. The times, the events. So now look at the work. Zoe. Zoe again, is life talking about primary life or life?

So when I say anyone, Zoe, change the word life or eternal to age. Age. So that is age. Age will mean when I say that, you know, when, for example, your. Your. Your parents says, that was in our days. You know, it's a shorthand of activities of a people, you know, things they were doing, culture, mannerisms. So now look at that phrase and say. And say a life of our days. Do you get it? Do you understand? A life of our days. So, okay, let me give you another instance. Sometimes people say, let's do old school party. In fact, if you listen to radio, they say, let's play music of the 80s. So they'll play the music of the 80s now. So you say of those days. So now replace the word eternal with days or ages.

Now, so if I say, if I'm the Old Testament and I now say eternal, or I say, okay, the life of the age, that means the primary life that inspires the activities of that age. Now pay attention. So if I go to the Old Testament, right? I will see eternal life in an instruction, a prophecy. You will keep this statute forever. Now, look at me. If you are Moses, okay, And then you give an instruction for the promised land, that means that at the point you are saying it, what you are giving an instruction from is an age to come. Is that clear? An age to come. Then I say, when you enter that land, ensure that when you plant maize, don't put rice in the Age to come. So it becomes a prophecy. Or let's say, eschatologically, I'm referring to another time.

Now, okay, when you get there, keep these statutes. Eat of these things forever. Now, by systematic theology, we know that when they got to Canaan, they were still looking forward to a land. Do you get it? So therefore pay attention. It therefore means that the proper way to explain eternal life is to say the life of the age to come. Prophecy. The life of the age to come. Now let me give you another nuisance. Galatians 6:7. If you sow to the flesh, you will reap corruption. The context of corruption is Galatians 5:13. If you bite and devour one another, you would destroy one another. Okay? Walk in the spirit so that you don't fulfill the lust of the flesh. If you saw to the spirit, you will of the Spirit reap of what the life of the age. Eternal life.

So you was it by the time Jesus came and he said, you will have. He's saying that prophesied age has come. So you know, in Paul's language, you can safely replace that age to come as the Spirit. You get it? Do you know how we're able to explain it? We have to go to the Old Testament. So now listen carefully. So you look at Ephesians 2 that says the princes. Or let's say Jesus, the princes of the world. Sometimes you will find cosmos. You'll find anyone. The God of this world. 2Nd Corinthians 4, 4. So John 12, prince of this world. 1St Corinthians 2, 8, prince of this world. So you have this world. Love not the world. So you have the word onion used for two ages in the same earth.

The age of evil, the age of the devil, the age of disobedience and the age of obedience. The age of the life of God, the Spirit. So when I say eternal life is a contrast to what? The world. The world without the Spirit. That's the contrast. So the contrast of eternal life is the flesh. Let me say I have a following what I'm saying here. Are you following what I'm saying here? Come on, guys, are you getting it? Just like we have? That means you are. Now look at. First Corinthians 10. So when Paul is writing, I says, death reigned from Adam to Moses. That is an Age activities. First Corinthians 10 and Hebrews 9, Verse 11. Now, all these things happened unto them for examples, and they are written for admonition upon whom the ends of the world that Come.