The government and what you do about it. Law 12 is the place of service. There's 16 by, by. But somehow Paul inserts all the women, women. Why such so many, so much women? I think I would take a bit of it today. There's some next week that the silence about women, for example, in Scripture is societal. It is not spiritual. It's a societal issue. And that is why he stepped out of the heavily patriarchal Jewish tradition. And it got to. Okay, let me say what I mean. You will discover that in the four Gospels there were certain prominent women. And apart from the Mary Magdalene circle, there was the woman at the well, which was Samaritan. Then of course the southern Asian woman.

But in the book of Acts, the very first woman who got mentioned for ministry had lived again in Rome, that Priscilla. So that presupposes that the issue with women. Of course, James will be silent on that. Peter, not much is being said. But Paul, because once again, don't forget, Paul is a Jew and Gentile. So he brings in that ecclesiology. So when Paul is teaching ecclesiology today in our world, what comes to our mind is people coming to the service. But when Paul says ecclesiology, if you go read it very well, there are two places where that word church is most prominent. Besides the Romans theology, there's the Corinthians and Ephesians. And in the two instances Paul is talking about saying, not you, not Gentile, not Jew nor Gentile. Ephesians 2 before Ephesians 4, then 1 Corinthians 12:13.

Neither bond nor free, Jew nor Gentile. So the core of ecclesiology is that unity of humanity where there is no distinction that is the end goal of God's righteous act of salvation. So within that, you know, you have to get. Get the ecclesiological concept that is called out of now, called out of all the nations of the earth. Matthew 28, verse 19 and 20. So I was. How did I get here? Okay, I was talking about the law. So you hear that where you now look at Romans. I'll say something before I go here, okay, before you protect Romans 10:4, you need to see that how did Christ fulfill the law? He didn't fulfill the law By Just Romans 5:8. God commands love towards us while we are here sinners. Christ died for us. Romans 5, 9, 5, 10.

You know, the concept of Christ's death had been explained. And he calls it God commands his love towards us. Why were yet sinners? He explained that as the love of God in Christ Jesus. Romans 8:39. What shall separate us from the love of God, not which shall separate us from the law of God, which is in Christ Jesus. So he has said all that. So he says Christ is the end of the law. What he's talking about is the love of God that was demonstrated through Jesus. So when you get to Romans 13:10, I said love is the fulfilling of the law. The first principle is, well, Christ's death, which is by the love of God, fulfills the law. But then it also shows you the example of how the law is fulfilled is by law.

Let me show you if you understand what I just said. Now, is it clear? Is that clear? Come on, guys. That clear? So to take Romans 10:4 is a proof texting without Romans 8:5, God sent His own son, Lance Cornelia, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. So Christ's death, which has been explained in Romans 5 as the death done by love. Okay, Romans 4:25, you know, so all that precedes those statements. So if you prove text Romans 10:4, you will be reading your own thoughts to what he's saying. But when you say Romans 10:4 and Romans 13:10, love fulfills the Lord, doesn't walk healed to his neighbor.

And then you see that Jesus is the example of that fulfillment from his death through to his resurrection, then the Christ is the end of the law to all them that believe will make sense to you. So the law of Moses, therefore, is a full package. Of course, I'm careful to use the word full package, but I know, you know what I mean, that you just need to unpack that meaning. It's a meaning that needs to be unpacked. There are words like that, righteousness, faith. When you see prominent words in scripture, redemption, okay, these are prominent words. Not I'm going, I'm coming. You know those words you see when you say blessed, for example, unpack the word. When you see words, major words like righteousness, okay, unpack the word. It's not one brush. You paint it.

Or you have words like faith, which is a big word, you know, or of Moses, for example, the scriptures, for example, lead, okay, Lead, forgiveness, where you have the word aphesis afiami, you know, those are themes of the Bible. They are themes. They are not just phrases, they are themes. And you know, when you say thematic concern will have a lot of explanation, a lot of background study, a lot of narratives, use of words, grammar, etc. So in Galatians 5, that was where I was before I Got there, it says 14 love all the love, thou shalt love the labor as herself. Then he mentions, you know, bite and devour one another. Then oh yeah, I want you to observe something.

I know we are doing a study on the Hebrew language and knowing that, and this is critical since we've already laid the foundation that we are all translating scripture. Where you have choices, there are choices that a translator faces where he sees again all those multi purpose terms that don't have, they have more than one expression I submit to you. For example, look at 1 Corinthians 3 before we go to this, I'll give you an example of this. First Corinthians 3 and verse 16 Know ye not that you are the temple of God, and the Spirit of God dwells in you. Now that word dwell in you. Listen very well. Of course, when you say dwell in, that is a Tabernacle language. Exodus 29:45, you know, God will dwell in you, walk among you.

Okay, let's go there so that you get my submission here. Exodus 29:45. I will dwell amongst the children of Israel. I will be their God. They shall know that I am the Lord thy God. I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt and I may dwell amongst them. I am the Lord their God. Now you know that Paul quoted this expressly, 2 Corinthians 6:16. Now this is just along the line. I think it will help. Now this phrase we read here now, First Corinthians 3. Now the background of that statement, temple of God is a collective word is not a singularity. Because he was talking about, if you look at chapter three, you are God's building verse nine. Then he's basically talking about the church in Corinth. And it says that church, that collective union of believers is the temple of God.

Because talk about ministers and what they build on and that the Spirit of God dwells in you. Frankly, it should be among you will be. Because the word him sometimes in you. The word you is both singular and plural. So it's something about you among you. So it says, if any man deceive, sorry, defile the temple of God. Him shall God destroy. Again the word man there becomes if any destroys, because we look at the destroyer there. It has to do with what is built upon. He says, eat him shall God is because that comes with those words that you can use. They him they eat. So you see that it is closer as it shall God destroy or make ineffective. Why? For the temple of God is holy, which you are. So he's Talking about ministry amongst the saints here.

And then he says, if anything tries to, you know, defile this collective union of saints, he says, it will be made ineffective by the Spirit of God. Now, of course, you have the first Corinthians 6, 19. Your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, which is the factor that makes us collectively that temple. So the temple again is used for individual believers and also collectively. Look at the Colossians 1:27. If you look at the Christ in you, the hope of glory, there again the indwelling is there. But the emphasis of that text is the union of Jews and Gentiles, where Christ is in us, Christ is amongst you. That really is what. So like I said, sometimes. It's just the context of sometimes. Holding this now in Galatians 5 and put your hands in Romans 8, 12 and 13. Let me read.

Let me prove text for you. Verse 21. Envy's mothers have read that. And I told you in time past that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. They which do. Now look at the language. One of the things we are probably going to do in one of our books is to show how a sentence is constructed. You don't switch. Now, notice that when it says, if you bite one another, you devour one another. In chapter 5, verse 15, then he begins to walk in the Spirit. So he has changed it from persons, right? To the Spirit and the flesh. The spirit and the flesh are the substance of what he's referring to here. So he talks about the works of the flesh, verse 19. Then he says, they that do such things. Now, it can be people.

It's the Greek word, all right, which is a definite article. Ho. That which does these things is not a part. What he hates is not a part of the kingdom of God. When we say inherit, we say, always looking at somebody has died. Somebody is going to get something when he's dead. No, the word inherits. We have a lot of words. We have the Chleronomous Cheronomia. It means a part of. So when you say inheritance, it means something allotted to you. So when I say that which does those things shall not, or shall not, or does not have a lot. It is not a part of the kingdom. It is not. That's why the next thing shows you what is in the kingdom, the fruit of the Spirit.

So again, notice how this translation we've just done now sets a whole lot of difference and it makes a whole lot of sense because it's discussing flesh and spirit. Let's add one more in 14. They that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections and loss thereof. Oh, sorry, I just skipped something. I mixed something up. Verse 21 is the word otai and o otai h o t r that which. Okay, now verse 24. They that of Christ crucified the flesh. Now notice this. The moment you did that Christ I crucified the flesh. It means that you crucified the flesh. That will negate Galatians 2:20. I have been crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, Christ lives in me. So the work of that crucifixion is not the work of the believer. So they that of Christ have they cannot be the believer.

The day will be the fruit of the Spirit, that is the fruit of the Spirit has crucified the flesh, the lust and the affections thereof. Because they are contrast. One doesn't want the other. So with the fruit of the Spirit, the He says that the flesh and the affections are crucified. So it's not in any way saying the believer. It says, look by the Spirit, the lost and the affections are crucified. They are made dead. Because you have Colossians 3, 3 Colossians 3, 4 and all that. Then Romans 8:12. If you brethren, you have debtors not to the flesh, because after the flesh you live, out of the flesh you will die. But if you through the Spirit mortify the deeds of the body, you shall live.

So it is the Spirit, the indwelling of the Spirit that mortifies the deeds of the body of Saint Romans 6:6. You are alive for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. How does this all happen? We have not received so the way you modify the deeds of the body, which is through the Spirit, is by receiving the Spirit. So put this down. Simple things matter. There's no insignificant part of Bible interpretation. You be sure that even a tense a phrase will matter. Look at Ephesians 4:30. Grieve not the Holy Spirit, which is the word Lupio. Now when you say grieve not the Holy Spirit, it means therefore that union of ourselves and God.

An Old Testament promise note will show the character of God when he said grieve not the Holy Spirit which you received today of redemption. Ephesians 1:13 and 14 explains that Ephesians 2:24 that put on a new man which after God is creating righteousness and true holiness. So you begin to look at the word grief from the perspective of God. Grief means pain to show it's not anger, it's grief, sadness, disaffection. So you look at Genesis 3, you find that grief there. What have you done? It's grief. Who told you again to Abel and Cain. Cain, sorry. What have you done? Genesis 6, verse 3, where his greed about man is just flesh. Now Jesus transfers it to his disciples in John 16:20 upon his resurrection. Sorry his death. John 16:20. You shall weep and lament and the world shall rejoice sorrow.