Father, in the name of your Son, Jesus, thank you for another time. To one another this morning, we ask that you further grant our hearts light and insight in Jesus Christ, your son. Let there be no error in this atmosphere. Let there be no frivolities around matters that matter. We thank you for granting us that sanity as we approach your word together as a church. Behold Jesus Christ, your son, as he sees us in him. He is glorified, we are edified. Amen. Amen. Luke 24:25. And he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin that Moses and all the prophets expounds them in all the scriptures, the things concerning himself.

And we said that the word Da menu shows that there was a whole lot of translation. We said from their wall to east there were a couple of things that must have happened. Of course, if you something about the Bible is that because it's an eternal word, but it will pass through different ages and times, you must bring it to your time. And Jesus would have done that here because one thing that is historically clear, Jesus spoke Aramaic. So the fact that he spoke Aramaic using an Hebrew Bible already shows you that there's a language barrier he must have crossed. So now you move from that world and go to Paul's world where he had to speak Greek majorly and Peter and co, you know.

So that shows you that number one, there's a language barrier you have to cross then again their world and your world. So it's not a new technique at all. It's the fact that you are able to see how Jesus took even Moses. So when you look at how Moses took the Hebraism mixed with the Egyptian culture and knowledge, it's just what you have to do when it comes to Bible interpretation. So there are many in as much as it's not primarily language, it also involves language to go across languages that means yes, this is our world, this is their world, and etc. Etc. Verse 44.

These are the words which I spoke to you while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and the prophets are now look at the word fulfilled, which is the word plero, the definitions of that pleroma, fullness, pleros and all that. Showing you what we have stressed as the predictive nature of the Jewish scriptures, what you can call the eschatological concept or content, the predictive nature by using the word fulfilled. It shows you that when I pick up the Old Testament, I'm going to find out a whole lot of eschatological substance or content in the writings which must be fulfilled, which are written in the prophets, in the law of Moses, prophets and psalms concerning me. Then they opened it their understanding that they might understand the scriptures in Matthew 28, 18, 20.

Then came unto them spake saying all authority. Spake unto them saying all authority, that's the word Power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Again, the concept of heaven and earth shows you that Genesis is in view here. And then he says, go ye therefore and teach all nations. Which means to make disciples. Where you have the word Matthew, which is used in educational institutions, he says, teaching them the Dasko to observe what things soever I have commanded you and lo, I am with you always to the end of the age. So you have the what in Luke 24. That's what Jesus did to them. Then you have the how, which is the method of teaching Darmaniel where he brings to their understanding how scriptures ought to be interpreted. Then here you have the why to make disciples.

In other words, to reproduce their work in other hearts. Matthew 2, teaching them to observe. Back to the how. So we've seen how Jesus did it. What Jesus did to why is to make disciples. Simple as Luke 24:47, 48, 49. To make disciples of every nation. Then that's the why. So we get back to the how is teaching them. Verse 20 Matthew 28. Now to observe where you have the darkals again with a lot of underground echoes of Didas Kalaus Kalia doctrine. And then that already shows you the Torah. That's the Torah doctrine, is the translation of Torah, for example, in another shade of it. So you have the doctrine, you have Didache, which is the explanation itself. Didasko is the instruction that comes with it. So to observe all things.

Whoever are commanded you, whatsoever I command you, I'm with you always to the end. We've seen a shade of that in Joshua 1:8. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth where you have the word agar. And thou shalt meditate day and night and observe to do all that is in there. And then thou shalt make thy way prosperous and have good success. And we said the immediate Context of Joshua 1:8 is leadership, ministry, service to that shows that the book of the Law is the basis for Christian ministry. Same thing Paul said to Timothy, 2nd Timothy 3, 1516, 2nd Timothy chapter 4, verse 12 3, 4. That's like Joshua 1:8. Then we have Nehemiah 8. Nehemiah, chapter 8, verse 7. The B part caused the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place.

So they read in the book, in the law of God distinctly and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. And those are elements of Bible study and Bible teaching. So the core of that is to say that the teacher of Scripture does not depart from a historical basis, which means that he is transmitting theology via history. And history must therefore be part and parcel of theology. History is. What does this refer to? What's the background of this? By using the word fulfilled, we said in Luke 24:44, it shows the eschatological content of the Hebrew Scriptures. So therefore, you have to go to history. And the history of the epistles will be the Old Testament. Of course, the four Gospels also come in. So therefore, within all this, were able to break up the study of Scriptures into bits.

I must have said this a couple of times that the Bible is a theology, a book that presents itself as a book to believe God, okay? And the method or the way that happens is a Christology, where you have a chosen one, a servant, the Messiah. The Messiah is what you can call not a random word, but a universally used word in that age for a deliverer. That's why Paul picked the word sota, and then John as well. Some of the incest narrators speak the word soter, where you have a noble who takes over, does this, he executes just a noble. And the Old Testament will have the word deliverer, where you have the word Messiah. So that led some people to call the Bible Christocentric, because if it deals with a Messiah, 2nd Timothy 3:15, salvation through faith in Christ, salvation, soteria.

And the soteria will have a saviour, a soter. So therefore that means it's a Christology. And by saying Christology, you have a soteriology. The history shows you soteriology. That is a study in salvation, the salvation work of the soter. And because of the fact that it is historical, it therefore will make the substance eschatological. That is, I am saying that somebody will come and do so. And so I'm predicting that eschatological. I'm showing you what I'm saying here will happen at some point. And that's where we have the word last days, or at last, at this last day, finally. The word last days simply means finally. And some people think it means the end of the world. No, it's not. The end of the world.

Where you use the word end for last days is just to say at the end of the promise, that is, if I throw something, where did it land? That's last days. Where did it land? So therefore the Jewish scriptures will be eschatological because it has the content of predictions. So we have theology, the Bible. Then within it we have the Christology, which is our only way to understand it because it focuses on that Christ. Then we said there is the soteriology, which is what Christ does. The how will be Pneumatology, which is the work of the Spirit. See a bit of that today. The work of the Spirit that now gets to what is the intent.

The intent is an ecclesiology where, because there's already salvation, sorry, there's already a falling world, a falling man, the sin you have to call men out of it and then you call men from the nations of the world. That is ecclesiology. Now one other fact about that is that the ecclesia to show, to depart from the thought of the election predestination concept of some people are not saved, some passive, you know, which is not biblical now no doubt will now breed what I call the subtext of ecclesiology, which is the missiology. That is now there is the Church. What does it do? It has a mission on earth, which is what you now find in Matthew 28. Make disciples of every nation. So coded in the ecclesiology, which is for all nations is a missiology.

That is the mission of the Church, the mission of that ecclesia. And then now this is it, the mission leads back to the ecclesia. Because the mission of the ecclesia is again to have men in the ecclesia. And all of this you'll find in Romans 1. We'll break it down later. Paul, an apostle of Gospel, the Gospel of God, Romans 11, which he had promised afore the Scriptures through the holy prophets, Romans 1, 1, 2, then 3, concerning His Son Jesus Christ. So that shows you what we have just said. There's an eschatological fact promised before, and then you have concerning his son Jesus Christ. That's the Christology. Afterwards, there you have the esios, which is a translation of the word Yeshua, he who saves.

So you have the Christology there you have the sota, there the soteriology, who was made the seed of David according to the flesh. Again, that's eschatological historical fact. Then he says, Corey first declared the Son of God with power. Romans 1:4 by the resurrection of the dead, by the spirit of holiness. Now that is again coming to Paul's world, where you pick the word Christ, son of God with power. Because you have Caesar there, you mentioned that. So you have Christology, eschatology. Then he says in 5 Romans 1, by whom we have received grace and apostleship for the obedience of the faith among all nations. Look at that. Among all nations. So within that, of course, 4 already has the new mythology, the spirit of holiness, resurrection from the dead.

Then you have five grace and apostleship for the obedience of faith among all nations. That is both ecclesiology and missiology. I caught that. Mythology would be the mission of the Church and none of it. Everything is interwoven. Then he says in verse for his name. Sorry, Romans 1:5, among whom you also are called of Christ Jesus. Called of Christ Jesus is that word kall. The way it is said in the Greek is when you name something, mention something, that has a mention, that has a name, a call out, which is the church, which means amongst people. For example, everybody's here now. I now call someone's name and I'll say. I say joke, for example, that means I'm calling somebody out of. Of. Of everyone. Which is where we have the ecclesia.

Then he says in verse seven to all that be in Rome, beloved of God, call saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Back again to the Ecclesiastes. So you have all of that in. So Romans 1 to 7 envelopes. All that together. The theology, Romans 1, 1 and 2, the eschatology, Romans 1 1, 2, 3, then the soteriology, Romans 1 1, 3 and then 4, the new mythology, Romans 1 4, then the ecclesiology, Romans 1 5, 6, 7, Romans 15, 7. So the book of Romans is one of those books that, you know, we have to revert to it once in a while, over and over again. It's not the kind of book you keep saying. Well, what is the subject matter?

Book of Romans is that book that explains the Old Testament wholesale with the sub themes and the major themes. So where you have. I'll go back to that again, where you have the promise that shows you that our study of the Old Testament will not make sense if we don't see it as eschatological in orientation. That is, something was promised pro epangelo. Where you now take the word epangelia. Promise, of course, the way it said the Gospel of God, which is two things now. God's Gospel. The gospel of God. God's Gospel, God's good news. And the word Good News has 76 usages in New Testament Greek. So it has. He has bound two words together pro epagello, which is promised before. Then you have agellion gospel. So that. That means that the gospel which is. There are two places I can find gospel.