Therefore, from what I said about Isaac, it means I must learn to fuse Israel with Christ and then Christ with you and I. Israel with Christ and Christ with you and I. That shows you an element that we haven't knocked on. Okay, that shows you an element we have knocked on. And that means if I am going to understand Scripture, I must have faith. It takes faith to move backwards and forward. So therefore interpretation without faith will be an awesome error. I'm gonna. There's a phrase I was trying to read from. I look for it. I wrote a phrase down. Okay, this is. Okay, I'll talk about this. So faith will be critical in my understanding. Go to Luke 24 again and look at the sequence. Luke 24:25 to 27. All fruits. Slow of heart to believe. Now look up.

Let me ask a question. And this is critical. Critical, critical, critical. If Moses is the first writer of the Torah who has audience unbelieving people. So which means that the first code of Scripture is. That is a book of persuasion. Second Timothy 3, 16. Right, right. It's a book of persuasion. That is why it appears like the book of Hebrews is the nearest in audience. Those who are believed, those who are trying to believe and Those who don't want to believe. So if it's a book of persuasion, that means that it will take faith to fuse the nation of Israel. Immediate context, Christ the future context, and then the believer identified in the eschatological context. So this is what Jesus did. O fools, slow of heart to believe one faith doubt faith.

Ought not Christ to have suffered this season to enter into his glory? 26. Pay attention. Beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expired to them in all the Scriptures, themes concerning himself. Once again, does the author alone determine meaning? No. But does the author guide us into the meaning? Yes. So faith in Christ is key to interpreting the Scriptures. Even though it's literature, it's a literature for persuasion. Therefore, just like Luke 24, the audience is to persuade, and you persuade by systematic theology, all the Scriptures according to the Scriptures, First Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. So let's. Let's take it again. Who determines? Whoever takes primarily it should be the author, but with many exceptions, because that different worlds, different audiences, who will be reading the text?

If the Old Testament is predictive, and you know it's predictive because they were called prophets predict. So if it's predictive, that means we cannot lose the eschatological significance. Today and tomorrow. Now you and I to be today and yesterday, but from where it was written, it is today and tomorrow. So as a teacher of God's word or Scriptures, do I have a duty of doing this? Yes, today and tomorrow, when it was written. So the meaning cannot stay with the author alone. Now that push us to the second step, the author. And this is in every literature, the author, by using some set of words the way he does it, don't forget the author has to borrow language or use language of his words. That means that he confers his authority to those words.

So the author therefore delegates his authority again to the words that he uses. And therefore it will mean a text will contain the intention of the author and more. Why did I say more? Naturally, a text should not have more than the intention of the author. But because we've said earlier that the audience is determinant, I must therefore situate the text into this world. So whilst your folk can lend or delegate his intention to the text still has more to be worked on. What do I mean by that? Every text of literature will have a plot, a point of view, the settings, the use of vocabulary and rhetoric. Listen very well. I said the plot point of view, settings, use of vocabulary, rhetoric, grammar. It therefore means that just because we Also know. Listen carefully. If you read Isaiah, you will find Moses.

If you read Moses, you will find Abraham. If you read Abraham, you'll find Genesis 1, 3. It therefore means that there is no accurate interpretation without intertextual corroboration. Intertextual. I must learn to read amongst many witnesses. It therefore means that the law of two or three witnesses is too weak. In 39 books of the Scriptures, I must assail my evidence, unassailable, pardon me, in 39 ways as much as possible. So therefore, I have a duty of intertextual corroboration. The moment I see Sodom and Gomorrah in Isaiah, I must go back to Genesis and also other instances where that imagery was used. Because if an event happens in 1914, and I mention it like it happens in 2020, that is already grammatical. If I say, oh, let me use a phrase now.

If I say now, for example, there was a time a footballer was called Maradona, but he was in Maradona. There was somebody else called Maradona. If you look at both of them, I think the person called Maradona was Austin JJ Okocha. They didn't look alike. That was from Argentina. This one is from Delta State. They didn't look alike. They didn't play for same clubs. I think they did it. But to understand why he's called Maradona, I need to go and read about Maradona. What I'm trying to say is every grammar has the genre, it has its own style. So I pick up, oh, if I see Sodom here, I need to go back. And maybe every time Sodom is also used. So I go to the historical meaning of it, not trying to see it said on all fours. What is being referred to.

Sometimes Sodom could be angels, but my immediate reference could be men. Sodom could be a city. My immediate reference could be a house. Sodom can be men. My immediate reference are women. Sodom can be fire. My immediate reference is anger. So I must ask myself, okay, I see deliverance. So every time I see redemption set free, I can't find that in Genesis. I'll find it in Exodus and every other Exodus experience. But more than that, I can't have an Exodus without a Genesis. So therefore, I therefore must. In my. In every text there is a story. What's the story? We said that earlier. What is a story? Literally, giants have said, a story is the what of a narrative. The story is the what of a narrative. What's the story behind the text?

If I say sent out the first place, I'm going to see is Genesis 3:22 to 23, Adam and Eve. Then I say the discourse. How and why? So we have the story and the discourse. I am using a story for a purpose. That purpose is a discourse. What am I talking about? There is no garden. There is no Adam and eve. We have 3 million people. I'm talking about being sent out of the Promised land. Garden of Eden, the Tree of Life and the Garden of Eden. Moses paints the pictures of waters referring to the nations of the earth. Gentile salvation. And Moses ensures that hidden narrative of Genesis includes Gentiles. So what are the things employed in the text? Don't forget that the author has already wielded his authority to the text. So therefore, let's look at an example of Corinth.

If I write a letter now, Paul, please write this down. Paul wrote to Corinth, you are not in Corinth. When? Now, allow me use this phrase. Look up, everybody. This is vital. When Paul was writing first Corinthians, did he have us in mind? No. No. Did he have in mind? His immediate audience is Corinth. Those whom he taught the Scriptures from Genesis to Malachi and had moral challenges, they had ethical challenges, they were not growing spiritually, etc. So I must know, where is Corinth? What was happening at Corinth? There was no letter written because Paul was drunk. Every letter had a reason why he wrote them. And so in writing Paul's letters, I must find out what are thematic concepts and what is the concept in the paragraphs. What is he addressing? Then I have.

That means in every book called letter or text, I have an immediate audience and I have an implied audience. How do I become implied? Pay attention to all who believe what is common to me. And Corinth is not where they live is what they believe. So I must know the unifier. And so this will help me. For example, interpreting First Corinthians 11, where he talks about a woman submitting to her husband by covering her head or not covering her head in immediate audience. It's not applicable because he's dealing with a conflict. Custom. I think so. And paradox. Those are the two Greek words that he deals with. So I'm not connected to Corinth in their customs, but I am connected to Corinth in faith, which means I submit to my husband. So the teacher of Scriptures must be patient.

Now look at the impatience of rushing to conclusions. Denominations have women cover their heads and has nothing to do with what Paul was saying, because it wasn't Written to you. I know. We have said there are pieces are written to us. Are you sure? They were written to Ephesus, to Rome. But we are the implied audience. Did Paul imply believers in other places to read it? Yes. Was it an immediate audience? No. So who will Paul have in mind? He will have the readers immediate audience. Those who read it also. And teach, mentions, Jews and Gentiles, those who believe. Now do you see that there is no way the Bible can be understood outside of systematic theology? Let me say this to you and I'll confess. I've not even gotten to the areas that is dear to my heart.

A few days ago, three days I think. Was it two days ago? Three. I think I practically cried. Look at how the Bible has been mistreated. You know the way we treat it. The guy just takes up the Bible and says God told him something. Everybody goes with it. Do you think that in the Old Testament, New Testament era they couldn't have used those phrases and gotten away? Nobody did that. The Bible teacher's job is like the professor today. He must be diligent. It has to be so. That means we must advance the text to a systematic reading of the book. A systematic reading will mean, for example, the epistles. I must read the narratives. And not just a singular narrative where it has more than one to understand the meaning. Why?

Because in their world, their narratives was their world and the world of the reader or the writer of text. I said that. To say this, if the epistles were derived from the Old Testament, and even the Old Testament, for example, the prophets were derived from the law from Genesis, then I must take the same patience in establishing Bible facts. That means there is no way a Bible truth can stand one leg. It has to go through the emphatic systematic explanation of Scriptures. I must learn to advance a text in a systematic way. Are we safe to therefore say the context of every text is the whole Bible? Can we say that? Can you say that the context of every text is the entire Bible?

So, 2nd Timothy 3:15 thou hast known the Holy Scriptures everything make thee wise unto salvation through faith justified in Christ. Then he says in 16 all scripture past graphy is given by inspiration of God through mistress profitable Ophelia for doctrine teaching. Already we have said that word doctrine is used for scholars. And what is the scholars intention? We have 80 scholars, we have inquisitive scholars. But the scholar of the Bible must be for reproof, persuasion. We have already said the reason for the writing of the Scriptures at all is for what persuasion? Why did Paul says it's for persuasion? Because the teaching of the Torah by Moses is to persuade a disobedient, non believing audience. So the core of the writing of scripture is persuasion. So put this down. The Bible is a persuasion book.

Gospel of Mark to convince the Book of Romans, Book of Hebrews, Book of Revelation, believers under trial. Today people read the book of Revelation for the Antichrist. They are so blessed. You can see the, that we faced recently about people trying to, you know, the end time is here, this one is here. And all of that force maybe next year to do the book of Daniel, because that's where confusion is coming from. But the point is, because they don't even know the context. What was the context of the book of Revelation? Persecution. The moment the Book of Revelation is read outside the context of persecution, you just lost it. Persecution. Let me add this. Have you discovered that unlike the writings of John, he doesn't use Antichrist in the book of Revelation? Antichrist is in his epistles.

How come he doesn't use antichrist in the book of Revelation? But you know what people have done? They have taken Matthew 24, Matthew 2, Thessalonians 2, and then first John, second John, the book of Revelation. How do you read that way? While Revelation is imagery, figures of speech, pictures, everything is pictures. He couldn't even write about churches. He mentioned stars. He can't just say assembly. I mean somebody can say assembly. That I said pastor is just a mess. Angel. And then people literally have done movies on 666. The context is believers on the trial. The man who wrote it was on the island of Patmos where he was banished. If you miss that context, you got it wrong. So he writes about an overcoming church in the middle of a persecution. It becomes relevant to us today, maybe if you're in China.