I never read them before and saw that he was always oscillating between theology of the Reformed movement that had to do with God's predestination and hyper sovereignty. Then again he will deviate. And I say that this has really helped in how the Pentecostals of today and the evangelicals have taught. But there was a fellow who was his friend who did not mind taking him on. The guy's name is Philip Melancthon. See what he said? He said, Christ himself said about the devil, when he speaks a lie, he speaks of himself. I will not make God the author of sin, the preserver of nature, but the preserver of nature, the restorer of life and motion, which life and motion, the devil and the wicked do not rightly use that. Jesus already has made a distinction for you.

Except like we have said today, if the devil is God's. Well, I've heard a preacher say that the devil is on God's payroll. It's not impossible, except that is. And this fellow said, we can't therefore not make God responsible for every human action. Of course, if you look at token salvation 4, we explored the issue of the malaika. Now the issue of kingdom, that almost meant that if you are in authority somewhere, you are responsible for every decision people take. That is absolutely not true. So the concept of sovereignty, which can only be allowed to the degree where God rules, doesn't mean he's responsible for everyone's actions. So this fellow wrote against Martin Luther, his own friend.

And obviously Martin Luther did not shed the weight of the augustinian theory where, you know, Augustine was like the father of the Reformed theology where he said nothing happens outside the will of God. Interestingly, he also had people that he, you know, contradicted. I must mention, I think I mentioned it. I didn't give you the time that the Pope did say that there was a mistranslation in the Lord's Prayer. So he added the word. He said, of course, that we have to put the word you give us this day, the pronoun before it. I've said to you before that much of the early writers did not have pronouns. They were imputed via translations. So he said, I think I mentioned that you do not let us fall into temptation. Not you lead us not into temptation. That is a bit suggestive.

Now a man by the name of Thomas Aquinas who was also a reformed theologian said that which happens by divine permission, that is God's permission, is often said in Scriptures as though God did it. So early writers, Christian writers, before today, I meant, did signify this distinction that had to be made. Thomas Aquinas lived A.D. 1225 to A.D. 1274. He was a Catholic priest then. Okay, when I had other folks who came after them, like the Swingly, the guy and all. John Calvin who hiked. Now the truth about the John Calvin theory is that it is predominant in the world. I'll tell you some of the fruits later in the week. And so what they simply did was to bypass these basic theories of interpretation.

Let mention this before time that in the days of apartheid in South Africa, the major proponents of racism and apartheid depended on Scripture, the Reformed theology, that God made white different from black for a purpose and that Africa was the way it is by God's divine hand. They listen carefully. They taught slavery from Scripture. They even in many instances said if a woman is raped, it means God wanted it to happen, mass murders, and so on and so forth. So therefore they missed out the emnotic of the New Testament. And you will discover that much of the Reformed theology was read from the Old Testament and twisted words in the four Gospels.

However, it is a non historical fact that the biblical principles of scripture interpretation taught by the early Jews and many of the early church fathers always vindicated God from the charge of evil. This will be lost if we read the Old Testament with New Testament passages that do not make it clear in his language. This Calvinistic model or mode of interpretation is not just wrong, it is very wrong. Like I said, Martin Luther was neither here nor there. Maybe let mention another name that I like Charles Sportion. Charles Spurgeon is today a beauty because he had a way with words beauty. Very few people know that he was a Calvinist and that a sublime theology of Charles sp John was the hyper sovereignty concept. I don't recommend him at all. I only quote him because much of his theology is temporal.

Though he was very careful, he wasn't absolute like the present day. Calvinists are the John McAuthor, the John Piper to an extent, Alice Paul and all of that. And I called them purveyors of heresy because they have refused to bend where Calvin missed it. So you find us say well, God knows why it happened. God has a purpose. What purpose? God has no purpose in evil than to triumph over it. So we mustn't in any way. And that thing leaves us wondering what is going on because of this all conquering, all knowing, all doing God that subtly has found his way into our hearts. If God was all doing, why did Christ die? Well, a way around that is to say he died to satisfy himself. How does that make sense to you? Here is Luther in one of the things he said.

It's not written but just in his biography. He said in his opinion the devil is at the bottom of all evil. I think that the devil sends every plague and every sickness. He is a prince of death. But he uses natural instruments and means. No illness comes from God, for it is good and sense good to everyone. But it is sent by the devil who causes all misfortunes. Yet we find the same Luther you know, of course he also said others. He said Satan sends epidemics sicknesses amongst men. I think John MacArthur has to read this for he is a prince of death. Therefore St. Peter said Christ healed all who were held captive by the devil. This to this end devil used natural means, poisonous air. Interesting. As a murderer uses a sword, so that means he was oscillating.

At some point he will say God permitted things to happen according to his will. Then he will mention Satan. You and I must not allow our theology to be that way. We must be absolute on the nature and character of God because we are believers in Jesus Christ. Luther is known to believe in struggling divine healing. I'll quote him the physicians in sickness consider but only out of what natural causes and from whence a sickness comes the same. They will cure with their psychic and they do right therein. But they see not that. Oftentimes the devil casts a sickness upon one's neck and when it has no natural cause, therefore a higher physique must be required. To resist the devil's disease, named faith and prayer, which sidekick must be fetched out of God's Word? So he knew this.

In fact, it is said that when his close friend, the guy I mentioned earlier, Philip Melanchthon, fell ill and close to death, Luther prayed to God and reminded God of his promises to heal the sick. But the challenge was that he was not consistent. And so we have the duty to present irrefutable, undeniable, and invariable teachings of God's Word. Therefore, it's clear that when we use words in the Old Testament, we must accompany with things like he gave them up, he permitted them to rush by their own will, or they were inspired by the devil. We must understand that the signification of permission is extremely frequent in Hebrew verbs. This simple and true grammatical interpretation removes every strange question in our minds. Uzziah said, from thyself is thy perdition, only in me is thy help. This is true, that is, perdition is man made.

Destruction is man made. We must therefore understand that if sin has cause and effect, sin comes from the will of man. And so sin and what comes out of it cannot be found in the will of God. Yes, the will of God and the knowledge of God have to be distinguished. The will of God will be found in the knowledge of God. The will of God will be found in knowledge of God. But the knowledge of God is not just about the will of God. The knowledge of God will also include the will of man and the effects of it. God in his love will speak to man in such awe and reverence.

All the writers will put it in that way, so that we will see that a loving God is saying, don't do this to harm you, as though he is the one that will harm you. So that in that awe and reverence and fear of God, a man would rather disobey, pardon me, than disobey. It was so dear to the heart of this friend of Luther, Wellacton, like I said, that he zealously, according to a writer, wrote intensely to vindicate God from any form of evil. He said this. God is not the cause of sin. Contingence must evidently be considered, because of sin, properly speaking, arises from the will of the devil and of man, and is committed without the approbation of God, without his forcing our wills. Hence it is not by any means committed necessarily by absolute necessity.

The doctrine of necessity he calls a dream of the Stoic, to which the pious must give neither their minds nor ears. The hardening of Pharaoh's heart is a figure of speech in Hebrew, which signifies permission, not an efficient will, as he leads us not into temptation, means he permits us not to be led into temptation. Therefore, we must not in any way, in any form weaken in our resolve to resolve this Hebrew language in the way God. God is seen and taught. There were others who, you know, wrote. We'll probably mention some of them later. I'd leave you with the. With I have quite some material here. Okay.

A man by the name of Thomas Pearce, a minister, also during that period or four months after said this, when God is said in Scripture to command Shimei to curse David, to profane his sanctuary, to give the wives of David unto Absalom, to pollute men in their gifts. And like such, wars must be expounded by an ibraism whereby many verbs which are active in sound are permissive in truth. So in the way it sounds, they are active, but in the application they are silent. God, in the spirit of holiness and purity, hates sin. And therefore he will not provide a counterfeit. So God will not actively pollute. He will not actively do anything. He will passively, in his inaction, see those actions happen. God didn't add in Pharaoh's heart. He gave Pharaoh up to a reprobate mind. So these things didn't come from God.

They came in the knowledge of God in the writing. And that must be clearly distinguished in the way the Scriptures are taught. I guess I'll just allow some of these quotes to come up in our books because they are much. They are important because I want us to look at it historically. You know, things that were done to disabuse translators from using that Calvinistic theology in our interpretation. As we have seen, interpretation and transitions are not tea parties. They are not. There are things we should be careful about. And that's why some, like me, the transition I don't use because I feel this waters down what is being said. I would rather stay with King James, which has a problem I can solve, than have given us more problems. Hope you get my point. I'm trying to see.

Okay, what I'll do is that I'll put this thing together in a format that it will be very easy, you know, to put it in writing so that it's clear that this interpretation came from a theology that is wrong. I told you, every translator is a theologian. Look at what we are battling, the Antichrist concept today. And that is because there was a way they were trying to create the Pope and the Catholic Church as the Antichrist. So they came up with that one person Antichrist model which is not found in scripture but it was taught as a theology and seeming scriptures that had nothing to do with it were brought together the same way with the Rapture story. Nobody in the first 1400 years of the church mentioned anybody disappearing. Is not in any writing. It's not in anybody's.

Is not in Jesus's writing. It's not in Paul's writing. He's not in the Old Testament except Elijah and Enoch. But it has found his way here because certain people have misinterpreted Scripture. So therefore we must teach biblical principles of interpretation that we will find very clearly in the way the four Gospels. What it means is that it therefore is right. When theologist Hagin E. W. Kenyon will say read the Old Testament in the light of the New, what they are basically saying is find out how they interpreted it. Interpret the same way. Now we are taking the extra mile to say how was it done? So that we will not abandon the text. We will be able to explain the text. Hope that's clear. So I'll see you 15 minutes.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/