Even when your children don't go to school on time, the one that you take them for wcc. They'll call you as if this call. What's going on? Going for prayer meeting and they're writing. What did you say you did? Okay, which days? Okay, so it's for church. Okay. How many days again? 14 Days. 14 Days. Were you aware there was school? Yeah. Okay. I'm sorry, you can't go with him. That's the end of your interview. Utasia just happened. So imagine preaching in that world that someone takes his child. To one mountain and brings out a knife br. Forget the layout. In our world it is problem. We look at it. Then we also have a picture of a jealous God. A jealous God. And many of us jealous God. That's in the Old Testament, you know, I say that's the Old Testament.

God didn't go born again. He said, no, let him pay for his sins first. Have you heard that before that, yeah, we understand that he has changed in Christ Jesus. But we need to bring back, you know, today we have international court of justice where they go back and all crimes against humanity, they will bring you to book. So he said, let us bring that God to book. We know he has changed. We know he died. He has to die again. Something like that. Then you also have basis. I remember when I was in university at my lecturer, she was my favorite in school then said that the scriptures promote ethnicity and racism and even what you can call, you know, female discrimination or women. And I have to stand up that day to say, no, you are not correct.

Of course today I look back at what I said. This was very elementary. But because they didn't know better, both the lecturer and those who were listening. I smelt with roses that day. I smelled of roses. I said, yeah. But I look back, I said, what nonsense did I say? So you have that you also have the issue of bride price. It's believed that the Bible is the issue of Bible. I do say, why would you have to pay money to marry? Do you get it? In fact, in some parts of Nigeria, you don't just pay money. Whereas the Western world has changed it. You now sign. You get it. You sign that if you die or whatever happens, there's a divorce. You know, so and so have so people now they will leave maybe the US or Europe and come and marry here.

See, let's do it here. Let's do it here. So we go back there, enjoy life. So if you're going to divorce him, you come back here. God stay there. And it's just a thought of your sometimes half just goes to the woman. You know, I think this the wife of the richest man in the world, she divorced him and became one of the richest women in the world. That's it, just divorce and be rich. So you also have slavery. Who say, what about slavery? By the time we are conveying those questions and when you get to the epistles, because it's very small and short, you know, it doesn't have all these narratives, but these were the narratives that they were explaining from. You have slavery, for example. How do you come out of it where you have the Bible becomes positive as touching slavery.

I've measured women discrimination. Then they ask laws and all of that. Then you have the law of Moses. Is it for the whole world then? A very vital one. I must mention this because I do know things that people that are atheists and I talk to atheists that are even professors that they say, well, morality does not need God or religion, that people only see themselves they are moral. So what is the whole point of you need to know that in fact in some biological researches it is said that there is a makeup of universal man that is moral in itself. Of course that one now ends up in who made him. Do you get it? So all those things will confront you and they are basically questions that arise from the Old Testament.

And the moment, let mention this, the moment this can be put together intelligently against you, there will be no basis for a savior. In fact you'll be told, let the Savior save himself first if these things cannot be intelligently explained. So what we are going to seek to do is to take it on intelligently. And oftentimes of course the honest truth is that every time I have to confront these issues I use a kind of principle which is equally to expose the hypocrisy of those who argue against the Bible. Many of them are hypocrisy. One of the things I found out, and you are going to have to confirm that is that many of them have the scholars dishonesty. In other words, they choose to ignore deliberately. And then which is, well, if you are non believer, that's what you should be doing.

And then increase the volume of seeming gray areas. And everybody knows that the clear areas should be used to explain clear areas. It's just a basic thing. If you are being fair minded. So you are being fair and just minded. Now let us first of all look at a key thing that could easily be said about God. That the very fact that God I know it's very fundamental in ten Commandments that worship him and no other person should you worship that. That is selfish. That in itself is sanguinary. It's someone that is like a despot that why does Jehovah love praises so much that it becomes the basis of serving him. And so what you have in the Jewish God who eventually we found out is the Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, is that praise loving despot. But it's not correct.

The first question you should ask, we should ask ourselves is expressing worth inhuman? Inhumane? Oh, sorry, is it humane? That is if I'm supposed to look at something and say well wow, this thing is lovely. We say it every day. Wow, that's nice. Oh, that's good. So it's within humanity to express worth. Generally people commend themselves. They commend their staff, they commend their family. It therefore becomes hypocritical. For example, And I'm going to use an example that I like. If you say, oh, Cristiano Ronaldo is. I live out the greatest of all time part. But he's a football legend. That's. Some people say no, but he's a wonderful football player. I commend him. Then he says, I don't know how to play football. Is that humility? That's a lie. So accepting what he does cannot be that he loves praise.

No, that would be a blackmail to say because he accepts what he does. He's arrogant. No. Humanity itself is embedded with a culture of thankfulness. Thank you. So you know, to be thankful, you are thankful for someone, but where did the person come from? So thankfulness is humane and human. So to receive it cannot be evil. If you can receive from your friends and from your spouse, receiving cannot be evil. To deny being thank for what you have done cannot be humility. It is hypocrisy. And when you read Scriptures, well, God says, look, if I'm hungry, I won't ask you. That's the truth. Psalm 50:12, if I'm hungry, I'm not going to ask you, for the world is mine and the fullness thereof. But Psalm 147,1 now says, Praise the Lord, for it is good to sing praise to God. It is pleasant.

Praise is just proper. Do you see it? Praise? I think it was John Wayne. I said, praise looks good, don't you? That is, praise is just comely to thank you. It's just proper. So worship is not a demand of God. It is just a proper thing. The moment I recognize his Creator and I recognize what he has done, it therefore becomes proper. So the worship of God is proper. It's not like if I. I've given you human relationships. So my not worshipping God is because I don't recognize him as creator. The moment I do worship is not like he has to command it. It becomes humane. It must therefore be proper. So the only way and the only reason why I would worship him is because I don't recognize him.

So, you know, I said something yesterday that idolatry is an afterthought anywhere you find idolatry. They have decided to twist their knowledge of God. Idolatry doesn't get to man first. Idolatry happens to man after I said that to you yesterday. So the concept of are they head the gospel is meaningless eventually. So a man by the name of C.S. Lewis said this. He said, commendation is humane. It's part of humanity to commend one another. Everything we like and love, we commend. So the question is God praiseworthy or is he arrogant? He has to be praiseworthy. Paul will say, just look at the visible things. In fact, when you look at the way David writes his psalms, when I look at the wonders of the heavens, it's just the only conclusion of not seeing God as praiseworthy is to say there's no God.

The moment you recognize the deity behind all that is in the earth today, then praise is natural. It is the eventual consequence of that. And at the end of the day, those who argue against creation, they keep questioning questions with questions and end up with no answers for questions. So we may have to concede to those who call him unquestionable. You are the Lord, but at the end of the day you see that you really just keep having the questions. And that question will remain a gap in the whole and a gap in the heart of those who deny what is obvious. So therefore it's not arrogant. Rather it is just right and proper to praise him again, which we are going to explore.

If you look very well at the Old Testament, almost every time he says, worship me and no other, he will say, remember how I delivered you from your enemies, how I rescued you. Much of the time he refers to Egypt. So is he arrogant in praise? No, he's only teaching you to do the right thing. And you discover that the thanking God and our praise of God eventually comes down to human interactions. It is the praise of God that actually opens up the vista in our hearts to be thankful to one another. One led to the other. So people need to know that the very root of commendation is the worship of God. The very root of human commendation, which today is humane, is the very worship of God, is the worship of God that leads to human interactions where we commit each other.

Hope you are learning something. Again. And observe this very well. I've said that in human interactions we commend each other and then we look at God. Is God that interactive? Is he relational to the point where we can say yes? Because if we stay only with the creation story, we are fought with a whole lot of irregularity there. Well, some say who asks him to. Some say this and all that. Okay, flip that. What about the place of the fact that God is relational? He's someone who relates. He's not someone who lives as wrong doctrine has taught us. He lives fine, one planet, then he rules, then he wants us to come and meet him at the end of life. The concept of his kingdom already shows that it's relational. He is amongst people.

And so those who establish the doctrine of Trinity, what they have simply done is that God relates by establishing a Father, a Son, and a Spirit. What they are basically establishing for us is that God relates. God is a relational person, someone who relates with others. Then secondly, the humanity of Jesus already shows us and establishes God, who in himself is human and therefore has humanity to be copied. He said, learn of me. Matthew 11:28 and 29, I am humble and low in heart, and meek and humble. Matthew 20:28, have not come to serve, happy to be served, but to give myself a ransom for many. And when you look at the cross in itself, whether it's Philippians 2, you see that he humbled himself and became like a servant, even to the death of the cross, will show you that really he's praiseworthy.

If we connect him as creator, then as a servant, then he becomes praiseworthy. Because when you see someone of that magnitude, if, for example, somebody gives me a cup of water and I say thank you, and I ask, where did the water come from? Then we trace it to a being. Then that being becomes praiseworthy because of someone had already commended for I've been commended for. Then I go to the other God. This same person now becomes a man and comes to serve and then dies on the cross. That means praise looks good on him. Is that not for sake of arrogance that we praise God? It's because it is just proper that we praise him.

And look at the words of Jesus, if I be lifted up, I will draw all men, John 12:32, 33 and 34, where he talks about his death as what he gloried him. So God glories in service, not just in creating mighty things. The greatest acts of God that requires our commendation is not even the world that he made. It is what he now did in that world as a slave, as a man, that makes praise looks good on him. This again is an offense, because the Greek will now look at you and say, how can you tell me that somebody that great eventually dies on the cross?