Everyone, let us pray. Father, in the name of your Son, Jesus. This morning we ask for the privilege of revelation, knowledge that you grant our heart the blessedness of understanding as we study through the Scriptures. There's no one lost in comprehension this morning and even after. And together as a church, we hope Jesus. We all behold Jesus Christ, your Son, as he sees us in him. He is glorified and we are edified. Amen. Amen. Luke 24. This is, like I said, an introduction to the doctrine of righteousness that we intend to look at hopefully, starting from Saturday. Luke 24, 25, 27. And he said unto them, o fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory and begin at Moses and all the prophets?

He acquired them in all the Scriptures, the things concerning himself. So we said that this is an illustration, an example of both exegetical teaching and systematic theology. Systematic theology simply means that you are going through all the Scriptures to explain an issue. Now, the background here again, at every juncture, when I'm confronted with the text, I know that the writer is writing from the Old Testament. So the context of the text will be that Jesus adjusts, rose from the dead. And then there was a question as to what had happened. So rather than just pick a text and just after all Isaiah 53 talks about this, it begins from Moses and all the prophets. You know, naturally he could have done an exegesis or textual explanation. He could have picked out Genesis 3:15 and explained why he rose from the dead.

He could have picked out Isaiah 53, 1:12, explained why he rose from the dead and a couple of other places. But you know what? This is systematic. In other words, it begins at Moses and all of the prophets. He expounds them in all of the Scriptures, the things concerning himself. Yes, we can't reliably say that he went through 39 books, but will not be out of place to say it. So when Paul writes, Christ died for our sins, First Corinthians 15 and 3, according to the Scriptures graphas, he was buried and rose again according to the Scriptures. Don't forget the issue there again was the resurrection from the dead. You can call that a concept, you can call that a question, an issue, a theory. But again, Paul approaches it by systematic theology.

Yes, you exegete a text in systematic theology, but they must work together. Textual exegesis. Sometimes we leave a lot of gaps because you just be focused on a concept. But in this instance, he goes through all The Scriptures, the things concerning himself. Now in Nehemiah chapter 8, Nehemiah, chapter 8. Again we have Ezra. Ezra is mentioned here. And then verse 7b cause the people to understand the law, and the people stood in their place. Once again the immediate reference of the law, when you look at Jeremy 28:30, will be in the promised land of Canaan. But in this instance we have a people, you know, who are not the same people. Moses is not present here, and the same people are not present here. Yet they are reading the law.

So which means that in their reading of the law here, they read the law in their own world. Now, verse eight. So they read in the book of the law of God distinctly, which we said has to do with interpretation and gave the sense and caused them to understand the reading. Luke 24:44. These are the words that I said to you while I was yet with you, that all things in deep must be fulfilled, which are written in the law of Moses, in the prophets, and in the Psalms concerning me. Verse 45. Then he opened ease their understanding. Where you have the. The combination of words like know whose the understanding that they might understand.

You have the word swine me, which means to put things together, to make it like we have been talking about systematic theology opened down ogil, which means to launch something, to bust open something that had been closed before now. So we have that duty, and we did look at a couple of other instances the last time, that therefore the Christian ministry has to be systematic. It has to be systematic. It cannot be handled any less than an academic material that requires study, research and all of that. And I believe the last time we also said that when you read a text in the Epistles, which I can say here, I mean, mind my phrase, the Epistles will look like salmon note.

A sermon note, it looks like a sermon note that when you are just like a salmon note that you teach from, you know that the salmon note will have a lot of your references. And then there is an explanation of the salmon note, which means that the explanation of the Epistles is found in the Old Testament and vice versa. That is, the Old Testament is the background of the Epistles. The Epistles is the foreground of the Old Testament. In other words, they both explain each other. You can't explain one without the other. Of course, now, because it's in our world, the Epistles are closer to us. But the truth is that they explain each other mutually. So your job is to find the explanation of the old in the new and the explanation of the new in the old.

Therefore we have said the other day that thy menu, which is what Jesus did In Luke 24 and 27, two words are in there dire menu, which is to cut across, then to cut across, to interpret, and the MNU to translate. We said that therefore every teaching of Scripture is a translation and interpretation. And therefore it means you are. You must bear in mind that the original speakers did not speak in your language. You must bear in mind that the original writer and speakers did not exist in your own world. You must bear in mind that the audience, the immediate audience of the writer and the speaker is not you. So you must cross that barrier and not assume that you are the audience of the writer or the speaker, at least in the immediate sense.

So therefore, we explained the last time we must find unifiers what will unify my world with theirs, what will translate what they are saying to my world are critical elements of I was trying to talk about something. I was thinking about something before I came that what will translate their world to my world? And this is the reason why, when you discover that whilst the okay, let me give you an instance. That gatetethe, which is the gateke, which is the Greek word where covenant. You have covenants. But when you go to the Old Testament, you discover that's why, you see, Paul. Paul hardly used covenant. In fact, outside Second Corinthians 3, you see, Paul not committed to that word because. Because take in the Greek, deals more with contracts and you know, people are signing, people are committing and all of that.

But the writer of Hebrews, even though he used the word covenant too, which is Greek, you discover that by the time he wanted to not explain that covenant, and he used Abraham in Hebrews 6, he said by two immutable things in which it is impossible for God to lie. That is, he says God gave a promise. So he therefore resorted to the regular Pauline phrase epangelia, which is to make a commitment to do something by yourself. So therefore, you see that whilst the unifier appears to be like covenant. Okay, now let me. Let's look at this like this. If we use the word new covenant, old covenant, it looks convenient. But if we slip in the word promise, you can't say old promise and new promise. That will look like two promises, you know.

Rather, that means that the person who made the promise has defaulted. But if you say old covenant and new covenant, it's easy to say, well, the other party did not adhere to the terms of it. So therefore we caught another one. But when you say promise, and then you you the promise is the basis of a covenant. Okay, allow me stretch it to that point. It simply means that what you are actually referring to is just one what one person has committed to do. And therefore, if anything is old at all, it cannot be the promise. The promise cannot be old, neither can the promise be new. That's why we said that we must re examine the phrase new covenant. And that's not for today. We've done this before. We'll explore it again.

So the unifier is that in their world, okay, and in your world, I mean, these are very vital things to know that I know that the writer did not have me in mind, even though he didn't have me in mind, but unconsciously he has had me in mind by referring to a promise, or like I said the other day, there's catalogical weight of. Of the Old Testament would unconsciously have the Gentile and even the Jew that they have not foreseen in mind because it is to be fulfilled. So therefore it means that yes, the immediate audience can be defined, but the implied audience, eventual audience of the letters or the writings cannot be easily discerned except when we read through the writings properly.

Which means that while in the immediate sense I'm writing to Israel out of Egypt, it extends therefore to every exile position as touching God's promise and his covenant. Allow me use that. So we therefore have a duty to interpret well, Da Manuel, therefore will mean from your world to my world, to unify the two worlds, from your language to my language, from your audience to my audience, from your context to my context. How do I find a common ground when this is missing? Whatever you say cannot be said to emanate from the writer. I must unify the world, the language, the context, the audience, and even the promise therein. The eschatological, I would say eschatology is what you said you would do that you did at last, or the day that you did it. So today we'll therefore look at the import of words.

You, you can't underestimate the importance words. We must therefore take the Bible seriously because it is what we can refer to as God's word to our world. In Joshua 1:8. Joshua 1:8, verse 8 Joshua 1. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. Thou shalt meditate therein day and night. And thou shalt observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and thou shalt have good success. Observe that the word book and the word written. Okay, the word book and the word written are more peculiar to Moses. And I'll talk about that shortly, because where you are going to find it before Moses is just in one place. Which shows that before the time of Moses, there weren't written documents, there were oracles, utterances, traditions, oral delivery of God's promises.

That's why some scholars will say the word of God was for spoken, then written to be spoken. Again. He says, this book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. By saying this, it shows that he is referring to the preaching of the word. The preaching shall not depart out of your mouth. Which means that the law, the book of the law was given to guide the nation of Israel. This book of the law shall not depart out of your mouth. Again, look at the immediate context. It's not talking to the nation of Israel, he's talking to Joshua. You can say it's an instruction to a pastor. So Joshua 1 8, immediate reference is Joshua. And what's Joshua's role? Joshua's role is like a pastor taking over from another pastor. This book of the law shall not be far from your ministry.

Something like that. This book of the law must always be found in your ministry. Then he says, thou shall meditate day and night. Now the word meditate, there again is the word agar, H a G a H or H a G a R. It means to utter, it means to shout, to moan, to make sounds. Now by the time. Look at the etymology of this word. It involves both your mind, your lips. Thou shalt meditate there in day and night, and observe to do all that is written therein, according to all that thou may make us thy way prosperous and have good success. Of course, looking at that phrase meditate, look at Job 27 and verse 4. I believe the last time I mentioned, if I have time today or Thursday, we look at this theological significance of Job.

I think I mentioned a good number of it the other day because it's historically the first book of the Old Testament. And the mode of writing which you said, a prologue, monologue, and all of that will inform the importance of the word. I said Job 27:4, My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue after deceit. That's meditate. Psalm 2, verse 1. Now you know Psalm 1, verse 2. Thou shalt meditate day and night. Bless the man who walks on the counsel of God. This way of sinners for elite love, Lord, in this day and night. Then Psalm 2, verse 1. Why do the eating imagine vain things? Why do the eating imagine vain Things. So that word imagine is the same word aga. But notice the concurrence. Why do the eathen rage and the people imagine vain things?