So oftentimes you will discover that judges will now say, okay, this is 1960, 1979 constitution. Which is agreed that there was a 1966 constitution, 63 constitution and 60 constitution. Or maybe there was also the Macrosian constitution, they had different constitution like that. So you need to revert to what was happening when this was you. Because every constitution was an amendment of the other. So the missing fool is that you now say, okay, what was the lawmakers, what was in their mind when they were doing this? You say, well, there must be something they were trying to amend. So you have to go back and say what Was there in 63 that 79 was trying to correct? What was in 79 that there was also another 89 one by. It wasn't really used that 99 was to correct.

Now people have asked what is the major problem in Nigerian constitution today? The truth is that those who drafted it for a guy wanted to be president forever. So it was like they were drunk, just put all the power in one place. So that one guy, you say you have governors that are six states, but there's only one governor all over Nigeria. I mean somebody is the one that can tell the policeman to leave you know. And it's one that every month you come to Abuja and he says, how much do you do deserve? Take 100 naira. That was designed for somebody who wanted to be the ruler of that was Abacha. So because the way we moved when Abacha died in 98 and then we had to transition quickly and Absalom was very, we didn't want trouble. He just handed over.

So there was not much time to do a brand new constitution. So all they simply did was to just say that 90, that 1995 constitution that Apache used and simply just hide a few things and Became like. That's why there have been many since kingdom come. So we have to look. But why is this thing like this? There was a reason. So the mischief rule allows you to go back. What was this trying to correct? So you cannot ignore what was happening when Moses gave this law. Let me see your hand. If you understand that something must have been happening, why he gave the law? So the question is, what was the law? As at then they were in Egypt. In fact, they lived there. How many of you have raised children who cannot speak your native language?

Or how many of you here can't speak a lazy language? Imagine somebody, let's say somebody's name is Coyote. But because he was born in Lagos, or maybe born in the United Kingdom. Even the way he spells his name. Coyote. Coyote. That's not Yoruba again. Coyote. Coyote. Say, what was your surname? That's not our name. So you have to realize that these folks were. Moses did not grow up in Israel. He grew up in the king's palace. So when you see that his temperament is the temperament of a ruler. Who are you? Why are you talking to who are you? He grew up that way. So the same way a poor man will have to adjust when you take him into a rich place. A rich man also has to adjust when he has to face me. I face you. And you say,

You want to have your bat? You have to wait for that person to. What's that? Okay, you have to wait. So Moses had to adjust. And that adjustment took a while. Even when he tried to hide it. That's why in his own right, he would say he was the meekest man. No, he's confessing in all of the earth. Like John says. John, the one that was lost, loved. But it's Peter that he said upon this rock, no matter what you write, that's why that Peter's account is not in John. Synoptic. Matthew 19. Have you ever trained you and say. Why is this guy like this? Look at how he broke that thing. I said, It's better. Did you know what he was doing before? What. If you. In those days, when he got angry, he just take his hand and smash the door. Boa.

And all those who come now. Bagger. Why did he just break cup? I can buy that one again. So you now say. Maybe you say, Michael, Michael. Cool down. When you're angry, next time, don't break the door, just break the cup. That happened in the Old Testament. Because if you tell him nothing, he will break the house. But at Least let's retain the house and lose stick up who is following what I'm saying here. So you have to understand their world, that's the way they are brutish, the kind of justice system there, etc. Etc. So in Matthew 19, Jesus gave us a principle of interpreting scripture when they came to him about putting away the wife in verse three. And in the culture, the Near Eastern culture of the days of Moses, they used to you discover that if you read. Pay attention, please.

Look up, please. If you read. If you read the. The laws of it appears like it's tilted to the man, right? Because that was their world. So there's no putting away husband anywhere who born you. How do you want to say it? But when Paul was going to write 1 Corinthians 7, either can put away because things had changed. So in this instance, they said. Moses said they can put it no, sorry. Can a man put away his wife and say, have you not read that which made them at the beginning, made them male and female. For this cause shall a man leave father and mother and shall keep to his wife. And the twins shall be one flesh, wherefore they are no more twin, but one flesh.

Therefore what God has just given, observe something that in their culture it is the woman that leaves parents. But here he says he will leave father, mother and cleave to his wife. So he becomes the one who gives sacrifice. Are you following this? So that means the marriage culture of the resurrection, it is the husband who gives Christ gave himself as a ransom for marriage is used as a template, but then it's reworked around the sacrifice of Jesus. That is why in their laws it looks like the responsibilities were always on the woman. She must not. She must not. If she has the man almost had nothing to do except to be like a boss. That was their world. But when you read Jesus, he reworked it. There was more duty on the man. Same thing with Paul.

So when you read John 8 and they brought that woman, that adulteress, that woman's and he says, either has no sin. Notice that the people around were men. They were guys. Let him cast the first stone. And Jesus says to you, go back and read Moses again. So in their world they were putting away women. So Jesus said, no, go and read the beginning. So we can put it like this. Before things fell, right before sin gained ascendancy, before men formed their own government and laws, this is what God said. Whatever God has joined together, let no one put asunder. So he says that Moses gave them the ideal in teaching. Then he gave them the permissive. Let me see your hand if you understand that. The ideal and the permissive.

So, sir, why then did Moses command to give a writing of divorcement and to put her away? Jesus now reworked their vocabulary, said, no, Moses, because of the hardness of your heart, suffered you to put away your wives. But from the beginning it was not so. He used the word suffered, antipersent, which means to allow. So that means the law was merely in an upgrade from what they were doing. Rather than do this, Moses now gave, as it were, conditions for it to be done. So it was like, let's step it down a bit. But he allowed it. But the Moses who said that they could put away wives, showed them Genesis 2, which means you had the ideal and then you had the permissive. And the permissive was temporary to take you to the sun.

Now the question is, if he didn't give the law, would they have done it anyway? Come on. If you didn't give them, would they have done it anyway? They would have done. They would have done worse anyway because that was the case, their own world. So this goes into virtually everything. Warfare, the ceremonies that they did, the social life, slavery, it was not started by God. Slavery was not God's institution. It's a man made institution. When? Let me ask you a question, please look up here. Did God have a choice? No, that was what was available. Same way the cross today is the power of God, but God did not make the cross. It's a man made institution to punish people either justly or unjustly. But that God now turned for his glory.

So God will use man's weaknesses and frailties and man made institutions to yet promote his higher values. And that's what happened in the Old Testament. At the beginning it was not so. So we need to now see what were they doing before that Moses had to allow. What were they doing? They were idol worshippers. They had a culture and they had a system in place. Bit of that history we'll explore. So you can say God supports slavery. No, there was slavery in Egypt before God rescued Israel. Which also means that the Israelites themselves were keeping slaves, right? Yeah. And in the Roman government and Roman institutions, they are slaves.

So you can't say, because God, let me use the word, allowed it to train us, or train them and maybe us now to teach us his higher principle in the new covenant, which is shown in his son, Jesus Christ. Therefore, the Old Testament has to be accepted as a gradual progression, a story of God's redemption going through Human frailties, human institutions, permitting, allowing, because he definitely couldn't do more than that. So in Exodus chapter six, we see God's attitude to slavery. Exodus chapter six and verse four, I will establish my covenant, okay? Verse five, I remember my covenant. I am the Lord your God. I will bring you verse six from under the burdens of the Egyptians. I will rid you from their bondage. He says, and I will redeem you with a stretched out harm and with great judgments.

He uses the word I will redeem. God wants to redeem slaves. Like we mentioned earlier, this was a nation of idol worshipers. So he simply came to remind them of a promise he had made to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob. In Exodus 32, you see that their default mode when Moses left them was to quickly worship an idol. You know, it wasn't far from them. It was like, what's the difference? So when Moses saw that he had to institute sacrifices, you know, rather than do it to Jehovah God. He's the one that will sacrifice for you, but do it to Jehovah God. So you can see that this was like a temporary measure that was given because of the hardness of their heart. Leviticus 10, you can read it later. There was even more stringent laws he gave to them concerning worship.

Look at Galatians 3:19. Wherefore served the law? It was added because of transgressions. Till the seed should come. To whom the promise was made. It was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator. The word added is what post 18 times it means to put in place, to bring upon because of transgressions para basis. So the law didn't create transgressions created. The law. Ordained that Esso, that is Moses now had to be that mediator. He had to now stand in the place because again of the hardness of their heart. Look at Romans 5 before Paul called it the law of sin. And then Romans 8:2 he says, through one man sin entered into the world. Romans 5:12 and death by sin. So death passed upon all, for all have sinned. For before the law sin was in the world.

But sin is not reputed where there is no law. He said, therefore you know, that's verse 14, I think Romans 5 and verse 14, thou said, never let's read from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned. Who is the figure of that which is to come? So if he calls it the law of sin and death, is sin and death what God does or what man does? Come on, talk to me. Excellent. Excellent. So what Moses permitted was what they were doing. The law of sin and death. So we cannot divorce the eastern culture of their days from what Moses said to them. He moved from hardened hearts. Gradually, gradually, gradually. Kept stepping it down. Stepping it down, they say, look, I never wanted sacrifice. I didn't want. Stepping it down is not a contradiction. Rather it's a progression.