They are words rooted in another language. Since the advent of the Hebrew language as well as other languages which formed the foundation upon which the Bible was originally communicated, there has been an invention of translations and all of that. Therefore, we must study how the Hebrew communicated. A major Mode of communication were idiomatic expressions and construction. An idiomatic expression can be identified in writing by frequent use or when words are not to be interpreted literally. We'll find this heavily used by Moses in the book of Genesis, precisely the first three chapters in Ibrahimism. Also, we must understand the use of tenses. There's a need to pay close attention to the tenses in which a sentence was constructed. We have, for example, a perfect tense. We. We have the. What we also call the cognitive tense. I will explain that to you briefly.

A cognitive tense is used in describing how actions are determined based on perception, mental reasoning and intellect. That is the use of my mind and the use of my memory. Normal language today will have the volitive tenses, what I did, what I wanted to do, or cognitive tenses, what I know that will be done. The early Hebrew language did not have a difference so many a times the two will be put together and you might not find who the actor really was. Now, the Hebrew did not have a problem with it because that is their own mode of communication. But in translating precisely what we call the Reformed theologians who had the hyper sovereignty concepts, they left it that way and translated it the way we speak our grammar today.

If, for example, say I will break down that house in today's grammar, it means I will go there and break the house or worst case scenario, send people to do it. But the Jews never used to see that way. If you say I will again, we'll come back to the rule of context. You may have to read the whole story to find out the actor. Many times a passive Persona is used or is given an active verb. All they are saying is by saying I will build, I will destroy the house. The Jewish language could not mean I know the house will be destroyed. So now it doesn't mean every time I say I will, it means, okay, I will. I will make you a father of many nations. I know you will become. You're not scarless.

But it therefore means that the student of scripture must pay very good attention whilst you and I will separate it into this language. It was not so in their world. The very first person who said this was Kenneth Hagin. And I heard it from Fred Price as well. But Kenneth Hagen was the first person who said look, when in fact the scripture used on Exodus 15:26, I will not put on the Egyptians none of those diseases I don't put on. You said I put on Egyptians. I'm not that healed thee. That that word is not put on. That is a. Is A permissive tense. And, you know, that was just what he said. But it just brought light. This. I mean, those kind of light will give you more light. Oh, I mean, there's something to learn in this.

Because if you say that today, there's no way I will give someone to read that and he will say, so he's just doing. What do you call it now in English, he's just doing the eyesight. What do you call it? Partiality. He allowed these ones to die. Let this one stay alive. Almighty God, the one that does. But the Jew did not read it that way. What the Jew will do is to go and read the story of how the Egyptians had sickness. We often don't do that. If all we do or all we did was to read the whole story, we will know that was an idiomatic expression. So it now comes with that. Understand? Okay, God is contradictory. You know, in the morning he can be like this. In the evening he can do like that.

Whereas the ultimate challenge was that we didn't pay attention to details. Look at the one we said earlier. This is even in the New Testament. Whosoever sins you remit, are remitted unto them. Let's explore that. Does remission of sins come by preaching? No. Do you get it? Whosoever ones are retained. I've seen a preacher stand up like this and say, I declare that your sins are retained. But you know that he was quoting the Scriptures. How would I convince someone that was not what Jesus meant? Brothers and sisters shying away from systematic theology is practically sending some people to hell. Because I would like to say. No, no, no. What he's saying is this. If a man does not believe his sins are retained, whosoever sins you, because your activity there is that you are preaching, who then retains the sins? The man.

Why does it say you? Because you are the one preaching. What kind of language is that? Exactly. So. So you can see that by me not doing anything, I have done much. So I suggest we're going to look at the details, I guess, tomorrow that along the church history, because I have to also do church history findings that certain individuals decided to reinforce that gap without filling it. Until today. Even the brightest of. Of evangelical teachers, or some of them. Let me get into trouble. Or Pentecostals don't know what we're talking about yet. The audience of Moses understood it. You can see why Nehemiah said, you have to teach it clearly. You have to make people understand it. Quoting it is going to make it Worse, you have to explain it.

So you will have text of scripture that if it doesn't bother your mind, I'm afraid of you. I mean I saw text as a younger preacher. You just. You jump that will let animals and they will destroy you. Why don't let the animals act on their own? Why must you be the one to let them out? And your mind goes to, you know that guy that you know, he has a terrible ferocious dog. What are you doing here? You came to look for my daughter. That's the way you say this one is even better. I mean a dog is a dog. One way or another you can jump. Wild animals they begin to read all sorts of things. And I remember somebody was using something when one place I don't want to mention name or replace.

I think I'm learning not to give many details. And the guy said the grace of God and he went into the Old Testament. I was looking at what was going to say. I think it was Jake. I was in that meeting and then he started saying, you know that God destroyed these people. He destroyed that person. He killed that person. That is to show the importance of his salvation. He's a great preacher. I said, so when he was done, I think Duni was there. I said has he finished? She said, he has finished. That's how he ended it. Because, you know, I feel, I felt that God was. I thought, you know, there's a way maybe he's also using a figure of speech so he will eventually conclude it. That's why I said praise the Lord. Lift your hand, eh? You understand?

I don't think even the way we say it about God, Satan is that British somebody that just is all out, you know, and all of that. So if you have faced that and you have seen, I mean and you just go just. And this has reinforced. There are denominations today that will not stand. If Scriptures are taught properly they will have one member. In fact the pastor's wife will leave the church because I'm sure that's how you married her. So. And you will discover that. And there are even some people that it is if you know what has brought their denomination is full stop and comma verses that should never have happened. Some the worst is italics. I'm not joking.

So when you hear call to be saved I wonder why would anybody put my people is a Calvinist because they have a theology that says there's total deprivation, unclear election, limited atonement, irresistible grace and then a passion they say so they don't call people believers. They will Say professing Christians. Okay, I remember that I was talking to some of them were one actually like three weeks ago or so. He said, how do you teach? How do you say you can take it? You say, can I take it? And you teach eternal security. He does not say he does. He said, but he teaches that a man at some point, if he doesn't believe he can lose his salvation. I said, what do you teach? Don't you also teach that a man will have to wait till the end to see whether he's a believer?

I said, it's the same thing. We're all saying the same thing. A man that will not believe that they never believed because, you're not reformed. Is that how you think? So you discover that they have to impute that into the translations. You mean all those things are there? So I will say confidently, there was either laziness on the part of the translators because to leave the language the way they are had the capacity of having millions confused. So if we don't understand the Hebrew language, please don't teach from there. It's like now imagine somebody who is not literate, doesn't know how to speak English, takes an English book to teach from it. And it says it's not about grammar. It's not about grammar, but you don't know the grammar. So I have the spirit. No, sir.

Even some things you will say as a Christian from a Greek Bible or a Jewish Bible, a non believer who is Jew will laugh at you. Is that what you think he's saying? That's what the Holy Spirit tell you to come and learn Hebrew. Think the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is ignorant in this world. Do you understand? For example, there was a time I felt that the eye of the needle was a gate in the temple. Why? I heard somebody say it, I didn't take it. Gate in the temple. So one day, it was a very funny day. I was so grateful. I was not the one who spoke. This was recently or two years ago, three years ago. Then he said, you know, the, you know, the eye of the needle was built by so and so.

So I wanted to say Solomon. Then you know that it was an improviso. It was an improvised part of the temple that was built that part of. Sorry, Jewish courts. Some of these evangelicals say it is a gate in the temple. They all started laughing and I was that evangelical. So it's good sometimes just keep going, just be smiling. Wow. Wow. So when Jesus said it is easier for a camel to is using what you call an hyper ball. Simple. I used to think that Jesus never used hyper balls to explain. But when he says to remove your eye if it makes you sin, your hand, no matter how you say that's an hyperbole if it makes you to sin. When he sent Peter to go and catch coin in the mouth of the whale or fish, anyone, did he do it? No.

Someone said, because it's not written doesn't mean you don't do it. Did you hear yourself? So how do you know he did it? Because Jesus said it. So everything Jesus said, it was done? Yes. Did you? Did anybody remove their right hand? Said, no. How? I think it happened, but it's not written. We are saying the same thing. So we must therefore understand how these things said. I found out something too, that translators will give a pronoun to a statement that had none. That had none. That the pronoun ought to have been deduced from the context. Now you don't blame that. I must say, transition is not an easy walk. Is that. That's why today, for the past two years or so or more, every time I'm teaching, I'm translating, I'm in trouble. Every time I look at it again.

Then my mind, you know, like before, you just look at the context, the pretext, the language and all that. Now a single text, my mind is going all through the Bible. Malachi, Malachi. There's a Malachi issue. Malachi issue. You have to solve that one. You can't just speak like a fool. So you go to that Malachi. What have I got in myself? Can't I just declare or speak Revelation? You know what I'm saying here? You know what I'm saying? You know, those are very lovely, but when you do. Some of the time I was studying the Bible and it was refreshed, so I've just refreshed. You know, I was just. I said, which Bible? The Bible is hard work. I know why you are refreshed. I can see your salmon. It takes coke to preach like this. He's not refreshed, though.