And many evils and troubles shall befall them, so that they will say in their day, are these not evils come upon us because our God is not amongst us? Does this make sense? Does this make sense? So when you read things, for example, like Psalm 66:12, we're looking at the word curse. The pronoun is supplied by proper interpretation. Psalm 66:12. Thou art caused men to ride over our heads. We went through fire and through water, but thou brought us out into a wealthy place. I'll go into thy house with burnt offerings. I will repay thee my vows. Verse 11. Thou brought us into the net. Thou lays affliction upon our loins. But look at 12. You brought us out. So that means the first statement was that of a permissive tense or sense. Let me read the version to you.

It says, you let us be trapped. You put heavy burdens on us. How can the person who let you be trapped put heavy burdens on you? He wasn't the one. You let our enemies walk on us. You dragged us through fire and water. No, the enemies did it. You brought us to a safe place. So you can see that there's contradiction. There shouldn't be pronoun between you. You did this to us. I did this to us. No, it is you allowed it or you did nothing. So the allowance is not an activity. The allowance is an inactivity. So the phrase permissive will of God should be permissive tense of the Hebrew language. To call it will of God might confuse your readers. That. Okay, he now does it. We will see the importance of all of this later. Jeremiah 19:7.

I will make void the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in this place. I'll cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies and by the hands of them that seek their face and their carcasses, like give to the mid of the fowls of the heaven, of the beasts of the earth. Again you look at this is an enemy action. And the enemy action is not inspired by God. It's better to say he let it happen, not because it is will, but exactly what they wanted. Or say he let them have their way. Lamentation 2:17. King James. The Lord had done that which he had devised. He had fulfilled his word which he had commanded the days of. Huh? He had sown down and had not pitied. He had caused thine enemy to rejoice over thee.

He has set up the honor of thine adversaries. This is God's lamentation. It means that something he could do nothing about Again, the word cursed simply means there was nothing he could do about it. The same scripture, Proverbs 24:17 says, Rejoice not when thy enemy falls. Let not thy heart be glad when he stumbles. So God can't be the one rejoicing over that. It simply means there was nothing he could do about it. So another version, the NIV says in Lamentation 2:17 he had let your enemies laugh at you. The new century version says, he has let your enemies laugh at you. The ISV says he let the enemy go boast about you. The CEV Contemporary English Version says, let your enemies boast about their powerful forces. Then the old man Christian Bible Standard Bible says, letting the enemy gloat over you.

What it means is we need to look at what cost it and who carried this out. Oftentimes it is an enemy army that does it, and God is not the one who inspired them. It simply means that the children of Israel put themselves in the hand of their hostile enemies. We have other texts. Jeremiah 15:8 Their widows were increased to me before the sand of the seas. We're looking at the word I will cause C A U S E I have brought them upon against the mother of the young, a spoiler at noonday I have caused them to fall upon suddenly and tells upon the city. No other version services I will let fall upon her suddenly. It is again permissive, tense, not causative. Jeremiah 17:4 I will cause thee to serve thine enemies, whereas it means I'll let your enemies make you slaves.

Jeremiah 19:9 I will curse them. Meanwhile, what he meant is I will, or it will be allowed upon you. The point is, where does the causative action come from? It comes from the disobedience of the children of Israel. Jeremiah 49:37 I will cause a lamb to be dismayed before their enemies simply means a lamb will do this to you and there's nothing they can do about it. Ezekiel 32:12 I will cause thy multitude to fall simply means I will watch it happen. It's cognitive and not active. It's not volitive. It's what he saw will happen. And you can call this safely the judgment of God. Judgment simply means this is what will happen if you disobey. It doesn't mean I'm the one carrying it out. Judgment means to say to you the punishment of disobedience. It doesn't mean I'm carrying it out once again.

If we run quickly to the New Testament, the death of Jesus, where he dies in the hands of man in wickedness and the fiery actions of hatred, shows that God is the victim and not the tormentor. If Jesus is God. Ezekiel 32:12. I will cause thy multitude to fall. It simply means I will allow it happen, because there's nothing I can do. Ezekiel 32:32. I will cause my terror in the land of the living. You and I now have a duty in 2020 to interpret these things. Well, in what tenses were these things? Read Ezekiel 36:15. I will cause them to bear in thee the shame of the heathen anymore. Whereas it simply means I will watch it happen, not because I want it to happen, but because there's nothing I can do about it.

Again, take your mind to Genesis 2:16 and let's look at it. 2:16 And 17. The day you eat of it, you will die. Look at two early books of the Bible, Genesis and Job. Let me ask you, in which of the instances was God not omnipresent? None. In which of it was he always interfering? None. Two critical scenarios. And Satan was there. In the two critical scenarios, even the name of Satan wasn't mentioned. One serpent, the other even said, God. So and when in Genesis 3 says, what have you done? Who told you? Was he present? Yeah. Was he angry, so did not intervene? No. Was there wrath? Yes. What was the wrath? The inability to act. Did he judge it? Yes. Did he give his judgment about sin in his love? Yes. Did he foresee Genesis 3:1:8? Yes. Did he make it happen?

No. Another scenario is Cain. Did he foresee Cain's actions? Yes. How come he didn't prevent Cain? If God could prevent sin, there will not be one sin in the world. We walk in the Spirit, so we don't fulfill the laws of the flesh. If God only lamented in Genesis, Book of Lamentations is good for you? He lamented. Today we have the pandemic. People are saying, what is God doing? He's lamenting. He's wondering how human beings can put so much upon themselves. Can't he just do. What? Can't he just. No, he can only lament because when he was taken to the cross, he only lamented. He can't stop you from sin, but he can rescue you from it. So Genesis 2 and 3 will replace itself throughout Scripture, where God is presently absent. And that is his wrath. And so we have a duty.

And how would you know he was permanently absent just by reading Genesis 1, 2, 3 and 4. So the use of the permissive tenses and the causative tenses can only be found out when we read the entire scenarios. The moment there is death, disobedience, what you have is not causative, it's permissive. God's obedience, obeying God protects, disobeying him brings his wrath, his active inabilities or inactivities. And that's the story. So what we're going to do, I believe from tomorrow is to begin to look at it in more detail that where I find such terms. My job, just like Paul and John, is to interpret it. And the truth is we already have the epistles. We do so. And you can't just say every time you see the word I cost you C, A, U, S, E. It means it's permissive.

That is stupid because it's not true. It has to take proper explanation. Each incident, one by one. We explore that, you know, tomorrow. So it's critical that we see ourselves as translators. It is therefore important that I take my world, the world of the New Testament, the world of the Old Testament writers, and then find the meaning of Bible text, then systematically come to the conclusion of what is theology of the Bible on this subject? I said that about the pandemic God can relament. Why would God lamented in Genesis 2 and 3, Genesis 4, Genesis 6, that this man is just flesh. He's only thinking evil imaginations. How can God stop it? No, if it is true that people decided to hurt human beings by using a bio medical or the bio warfare, God can only.

And believers must equally learn to lament with God. The moment we ask him why, then we don't know him. We have to ask man why? Because that's what God does. But every time that man gets into evil, God always trumps the evil of man. And so that's why I'm too sure nothing will happen and evil will reign forever. It will never happen. Because Jesus Christ rose from the dead. Plain and simple. It's our duty. Jesus grieved over cities. How come he didn't say, let me just do my hand like this. He grieved. He grieved at unbelief, cried. When a friend of his died, someone said, why did he cry? Because it was a loss, but he was going to raise him from the dead. That's the point. The fact that he has a solution does not mean he will not lament at the problem.

We must learn to wear that toga. If we pray today for the world. What the world is going through, we will lament. Sometimes in prayer, we're going to cry. And they are the tears of God, a creator, you know, having his creature mess his work up. And righteousness is to set it right. Amen. So that's the point. Jesus did, Paul lamented, cried by the spirit of God. And that remains God's action towards evil. And what is his solution? The new man, the new creation, the born again man, his spirit and us walking in it. Amen. Amen.

Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/