So at some time when it now became employed by enemies to penetrate through those inns, because those inns were serving like resource centers for military people, traveling people and all of that, you know, across just like the way you have them. If you, if you go to the U.S. for example, even Nigeria, here you discover that at airports you have hotels, people are coming around where they first rest. And when you get to some, if you are in the US because it's. It's more desirable to travel by road. You like it, but I don't like it. If you go by road, you will see on the road, at almost the entrance of every city, at the exit, you'll find inns where you can lodge. It assumes that, okay, you're tired before you get in a logger. So that was the tradition.

So she had, she was a keeper of one of such places at the entrance of the city. Now it therefore will be an ideal place for spies to stay and those who are conspiring against the city. Now the non believing mind would think, what did they go in to do in the house of Rahab? Notice the use of words. They came into the Allah's house. If they had sexual relations, Old Testament language is very clear, it was they came into her. So that means they lodged there and did not have sex with her. And in fact, in Judges 16:1, in Samson's case, he went into her, not into her house. So that, yes, the taverns, those inns, were used for sexual pleasure. Used for, you know, but they were also used for spies and just a place to lodge.

So the key issue there is Rahab had a place where people would lodge and the spies took advantage of it. Now it's vital to know also that unlike Rahab and her Family, fellow Canaanites or those in Jericho refuse to acknowledge God. Let me make some very vital points. And I think I really need you to pay attention to this. What then will be the offense of Canaan? Was it that we're coming to your house and you refuse us entrance? We've seen the protocol of war. Peace, shalom. And you said, no, it's war. If you want peace, we give you peace. If you want war, we give you war. That was the code. But there was something underlining that should not be missing. The truth is Canaan refused to believe in God. That was key. They refused to acknowledge his lordship over the world.

They refused him as the Creator. To know this well is to look at the utterance of Rahab. Joshua 2, Verse 9. Now you will have thought, this is Canaan. They are living from Egypt. Because I've said this before. How. What about those who did not hear the gospel? I said it's not a question in the Bible. It's only a curiosity that has no basis. Now let us look at. Let's track this. Very well. These folks are leaving Egypt. They've never been to Canaan before. The worst is that they sent spies who went there, were scared and returned. But look at what Rahab said. Joshua 2, 9. I know the Lord had given you the land. Pay attention. And that your terror is foiled upon us. And that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. Let's take verse 10 together.

For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when he came out of Egypt. And what you did unto the two kings of the Amorites. And were on the other side Jordan, Sihon an hog whom you utterly destroyed. And as soon as we heard these things, our hearts did not melt. Neither did there remain any more encourage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, he is God and above and 11 above and Earthbeth. So can you see that there was a prior information? You know, I said to us that idolatry is oftentimes a reaction to the worship of God. It's a replacement. So she knew. Her family acknowledged it. They knew what God did in Egypt. They had a good report of him. Look at chapter nine, Vern nine.

You know, there was a. There was a tribe that they rescued. If you notice the Gibeonites, those were in Gibeon that weren't affected. You know why? Look at chapter nine, verse nine. From a very far country thy servant had come. They said unto him, because of the name of the Lord. Thy God, for we have heard the fame of him, and all that he did in Egypt. They knew. They had heard it. They are reporting back. Exodus 15, 14, 17, Deuteronomy, chapter 2, verse 25. Did you also notice that Nineveh knew about God? They knew before Jonah came. So the thing is, it's not like an unjustified action, totally speaking, these are people that knew, they heard and they said God had given you the land.

So what we are finding is a people who, again, whether you're talking about the role of God here, we're just basically looking at the justification of the world. And why did they happen? They knew. And every land was possessed by what conquest? If you trace every land, you will get back to the first man, Adam. So eventually you discover that this is not just a mere acquisition of land, is a refusal to acknowledge the lordship of Yahweh God. So can we therefore say that. Listen carefully, both the. The whole land of Canaan, from Jericho, the Gibeonites, the Perizzites, Jebusites. That's the part I don't like mentioning, Jebusites. Well, it's not a Jebusite, it's Jebusites. My conscience is scared. But you know that there was none of them that did not see the signs of God's power. They saw it.

So that's why Jesus in Luke 16:31 says, look, if they will not hear Moses and the prophet, even if one should rise from the dead, they will still not be persuaded. So they had heard about the gods of Egypt, how they were disgraced. And therefore Rahab knew what that the Gibeonite and definitely the entire landing. So it wasn't just an invasion. Unexpectedly, like we have said, they went around the seven. They went down seven times of the war, which symbolized, let's see how they did it. What exactly did they do? Joshua 6 and 3. You shall encompass the city, you men of war, and go round about the city. Once. Thus. So it wasn't like everyone, it was the. The soldiers. Now, the word encompass there the city go round. In the Hebrew is the word nakap?

N, A Q, A P. It means a circle. It involves blowing horns, sacred procession, the shouting of the name of God. In fact, in Psalm 48 is described as walking about Zion, counting our towers, considering our ramparts. You see allusions of this in 2nd Kings 6:14, 2 Samuel 6, 15, 16. So in other words, it meant that they went around in like an appeal, an opportunity to evade destruction, an opportunity to not refuse, but to acknowledge. Then it was Refused. Once again, those who circled it were men of war. And what they circled were fortresses of war. Hope that is clear. Now. But again the question is why so many wars? We have said, historically speaking, wars are part of human history. It has nothing to do with the worship of God. It just has everything to do with human history.

People have accused the Bible of being responsible for wars. The Bible has instigated wars. Some even say the Bible instigated the Second World War. The Bible instigated the Crusades and all of that. They are far from the truth because literally speaking, we have a whole lot of historical documents about wars that are in fact from all history. You could check this out yourself. The Israel's wars were the. Call it lightweights. They are like, you know, you have, you know, you have super heavyweight, you have heavyweight, you have middleweight, you have featherweight. What else can exist? Lightweight, what else can exist? You have the street weight just putting punches on the road. Compared to all the wars of their time, the wars of Israel were the mildest. I'll give you some wars to check up in history.

The Hittite and Egyptian wars, second millennium, just about a thousand B.C. The Aramean a R A M E M A E A N the Assyrian Wars, Babylonian Wars, Persian Wars. In fact, maybe I should mention this in a particular document. The New Assyrian Annals. New Assyrian Annals of the Ashuna Seal Power as. The second between 883 to 859 BC. Let's see what he describes. Their heads were on the poles. Their bodies was for show. I took their bodies, placed them on piles. I put out their eyes, I cut off their ears and limbs. I put their heads and took it around the city. In fact, I read the history of our wars in Yoruba land. They will cut someone's head and take it around. It was like conquest that was in the Bible.

So the truth is the Israel wars were the mildest of their day. What I'm trying to say is therefore because very unfair to say that those wars were isolated or they were on their own. No. So the first thing we need to put in mind and also realize is that the wars were just wars of their day. Wars were typical and theirs were the mildest. Just like we examined criminal justice system was the mildest of their day. It wasn't. That was their world. And if you notice also they came out of the land of Egypt that was known for wars. Wasn't God that gave Abraham armed men. That was just their world. That was how they knew to claim territories. But eventually Abraham knew that there was no land to claim after having soldiers. Because a little up your eyes, look at it.

I've given them all to you. So we have to be able to juxtapose what God intended. Okay, but what was present in their own world, they have been agreed to marry. That would be a serious theological confusion. The second thing we need to also notice is that majority of the wars Israel fought were defensive in nature. We have examined a few Echodos 17, the ones against the Amalekites. Verse 8 was defensive. Numbers 21 also was defensive. Deuteronomy, chapter 2, verse 26 to 30 was defensive. Numbers 31, verse 2 to 3 defensive. Numbers 31, verse 16, they were all defensive. Joshua 10 and 4. So there was a whole lot of defensive battles. It was defensive, was okay. Along the way they met this. They attacked them. They had to, you know, defend themselves and all of that.

Also it's noted that God stopped them from going to neighboring nations. Moab and Amnon were prohibited. They shouldn't go there. Moab, amnon, the chapter 2, verse 9 and 19 also Edom, Jeromy, chapter 2, verse 4 to 5, James 23:7. Even though those ones didn't assist them and didn't help them, you could check out their history. Numbers 20, verse 14 to 21. Also, they were not meant to grab land, steal land and all of that. So all the battles in the time of Joshua that appeared were sanctioned by God. Pay attention. They were all defensive. Joshua 10 to 11. Were there offensive wars that took place even at the time of David? Yes, but the fact that they happened didn't mean they were ideal or exemplary. We may need to look at them, you know, in their own context. So a few takeaways.

One, there were wars in their days. Theirs were the lightest, almost the weakest of the battles, of course, because they didn't even have trained military men. The second thing is very critically was that most of their wars were defensive in nature. They were not allowed to, and they weren't supposed to fight everybody. And then more so they were banned or barred from touching certain nations, even nations that didn't like them. So that means we must qualify their wars appropriately. Let's take one more and then look at another set of people, the Midianites. We found them with the Amalekites as well. The Midianites were equally sworn enemies of Israel. 25, Verse 17 to 19.

Remember what the Amalekites did to do, by the way, when you come out of Egypt and how he immediately, by Ways both the innermost of thee, that all were feeble behind thee, and thou was pained and weary, and he feared not God. Therefore Amalek, sorry it shall be when the Lord thy God had given thee the rest of thine enemies round about in the land, the Lord had given thee for inheritance to possess it. Thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. Thou shalt not forget it. So just like this, the Midianites were equally sworn enemies. Is the Midianites that had Balaam, you know, in numbers 24, 25 and all that. And the plan of Balaam was get Israel to worship an idol. Numbers 251 2, numbers 31, 16. He was the one that couldn't bring a curse on Israel.