So when you hear law of Moses, don't give it a singular explanation. You are dealing with a nation, so you have the executive, judicial and legitimate powers. Then he says, moreover, provide other people. Men who fear God, men of truth hating covetousness that plays over. I mean, how to choose your politicians. I don't know how this works today. To the ruler over thousands. Can we say governors Ruler over hundreds. That local government chairman. Then over 50s, councillors over tens. Chairman of civilization. Let them judge the people. At all seasons shall be that every great matter they shall bring to Abuja. Are you following? Okay. But the very small matters they shall judge. So it's easier for thyself that they shall bear the burden with thee.

If thou do this thing God commandest to, then thou shalt be able to endure and all who shall also go to their place. Moses therefore acting to the Father in law. Now in verse 26, when they appointed, those guys said they judged the people. Is the word to govern Shaphat to govern people. Genesis 16, verse 5. The Lord George between me and you is used for judging. Genesis 18:25 to govern. Exodus 2:14 Exodus 5:21 Exodus 18:13 Exodus 18:16. So which means that Moses had to give them legal system. I know the legal system will not. Please separate it all. There is legal system and there is the worship. There are two different things though. So that means that there are laws of Moses that must be interpreted in our world like a constitution. Because it's a nation. Three million people and whereabout.

And don't forget they are also nomadic. So a judicial system it will be. It was given. He will make laws. Laws about. Look at Nigeria. We have laws. Our sitting here is there's a law our going out there's a law. There's a law to even how you must build your house. You can't just wake up one morning and say I'm led to put this one like this, I've led this. They will just be led to break the whole thing down, you know. And every society is like that. Now I'm hearing that, you see, if you go to some European countries now that you must buy something, so you must pay by the time everything is over. Now that you. 14 Days you must be go and self isolate even 14 days, you say, I can't do it, I can't take it.

I know that you can't take it. You can't do it. No, how can I? My freedom they just put on your pump. You say the cancellation, you know, no, we're under grace. Do you understand? So. So first of all, see them as a society. And in a society you have to make laws. Amen. You have to make laws, so you have to make laws for them. So those laws will have the religious connotations. When I say religion, you know what I mean? The ones that did deal with the commerce. Just like look at your society today, you know, there's. You can't just open a shop and say you want to start selling drugs. Of course I think you can do that. In Nigeria, people get inside. This. This drug can cure everything. Can you know, anything you have, you can.

Those are going out of fashion for now because you go and do that in a bus. Let's take it. They'll kept quiet for now. So you have to. That is the. In. The inability to see this way will make you read the first five books wrongly. So it also means that just like every nation, they will have an army, right? Am I correct? Aha. I know that Nigeria doesn't use angels. Okay, so they have an army because Egypt also had an army. Now let us look at the background. We've said already that the book of Genesis is about Abraham. So which means that the background of the book or the five books of Moses is the promise given to Abraham. You must never lose that. And that promise had to do with a. That is the context that mustn't be lost. Now.

Genesis 15, Verse 13, law of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. This has a multilateral connotation. But then we'll leave it for now. A stranger. The word there is G R A sojourner, an immigrant. And pay attention. It's not a strange word to Abraham. In Genesis 23:4, Abraham, when he wanted to bury Sarah, he said, I am a stranger and a sojourner with you. Now does this make sense? Now the exile position, when you look at the Fact that believers are also called strangers and pilgrims. Right? Are you there spiritually speaking? So Hebrews 11 also connotes that for us. Okay, so it's straight. As I said, it has a multilateral implication. Then it says that's not theirs. They shall serve them, they shall afflict them for 400 years.

And that nation who shall serve shall I judge. And afterward they shall come out with great substance. So they come out as a nation. In Exodus 2:22. I have been a stranger in a land. So it's a common word to use stranger and it will come out of the generation door time. You know that Genesis 15:16, that's just by the way. So that means in Egypt there are immigrants. Now look at a, you know, there's difference between an immigrant and a non immigrant. If you, if you go to a country, for example come to Nigeria, you will you apply, you have to two classifications. For example or America, you have a non immigrant visa. That means you're just going to holiday. What are you going to do? You say well I'm just going to catch phone, you know, going to so and so what?

I remember the guy was asking me my. One of my second interview, he said are you going to America to do? I said I'm just going to do holiday. He said how do I know that you will not stay there? I said what am I looking for in your country? So I don't make money in your country, I go and spend my money there. He looked at arrogant guy. I said the first time he gave me a visa, I said I didn't use it. He said why? I said because you gave me two weeks. If you give me two weeks again, I won't go. The guy said this guy must be crazy. Said, I'll give you two years. I said thank you. Of course I put up a front. Wasn't like I was so confident. The guy can just go mad and say.

This guy went, but the point was I wasn't going there to leave, but I can apply to be an immigrant. That's why we have this visa lottery. We are going there to work, stay and leave. And when that happens, you know that when you are going as an immigrant they will inform you we don't park on the road here. One guy went to the uk he thought it just the way we park. Show I'm coming to your house. I did outside. So he went inside. When he came outside, tickets, without wondering that what kind of is our ticket if it's in front of your house. So wait, are they inside? This is. This is. What kind of economy is this? Another guy just came. It's power. He didn't know.

Or that you want to take your car, you know, because that land is not your own, you know. Here you say who park? You follow my house. Who is not your own. So when you are in Rome, you Romanize if you are in a country that means you will get used to their laws. You will know their laws. Now imagine 400 years what will be the law in your head. Of course you get to Nigeria and then before you know it, after you be United Kingdom for maybe every time I go to you uk I've been going for a few years. I will have to call. Sorry. How did you take their train? I don't know. They'll say 404, 306. I said I don't know. Just tell me what to be looking out for.

But when I'm in Lagos, I just need to hear somebody say, you know. But it will be strange when you're in New York or you're in Washington D.C. nobody's going to say Pelley Lane, Perkling Lane. Oh wow. Oh who's going to do that, you know. So imagine for many years the laws of commerce they knew is where they lived. Near eastern Egypt, what you can call the Hittites. That's what they knew. The criminal justice system Egypt. So Moses is now vested with the responsibility to take them out of Egypt and then provide them new law if he has to at all. But now on what basis is he taking them out? On Genesis. On Genesis, the promise of God. So before you use your teeth against Moses can you see the responsibility had he will have to legislate, give instruction on everything.

Just like look at we. We will bring how many legislators we have? 109 Senators, 360something House of Rep members and they will come together and look at how many laws they eventually come out with. Many of them are as useless eventually. I look at how look at Nigeria as a nation too in okay we came together in 1960. Go and check all the constitution. I think the first one was 51. No, no, no. Had in 1920 something constitution. 1940 Something forgotten been a while. 151 Almost every for four years you say we didn't see this one. We had this one. Now the evidence act now did not foresee a day that somebody will just take a phone. The media laws did not touch social media. So now everybody rushing that hey, what about diseases?

We didn't know that was the day we come that you all be covering your nose like this. So imagine having to amend it every three, four, five years. And that duty belongs to one man. So when you say law of Moses, think very well. It's a nation. It's not a family in a room where you say, good morning, Jesus, why not eat Jesus? Families also, I mean, you know, the number of people you will have to govern. Some of them are wicked spirit, soul and body. Some of them are rebellious people. And he has to take them, you know, out of Egypt. He has to. So he will. He will function as a pastor. He will function. Function as a ruler. He will function as a. I mean, as a local government counselor. He will function.

Of course, we've said already, we've seen it from Exodus 18, he will delegate, but the sole responsibility will lie in his hands. So here is God. He has made man after his image, after his likeness to be found in Christ Jesus. The man is disobedient, okay? And God will have to walk through, okay, a Moses, a fallen world, a falling system, a human device, system of governance, you know, in his imperfection. And this is what happened in the first. In the Exodus. So which means that the first thing that Moses had to be. Moses had to go to school. Let's just say he has to go to school, and it's not Bible school. He has to learn. He has to know. That means Moses will have to. He will have to know commerce, right? He will have to know laws.

He will have to know. He will have to up till. That means, just like, you know, we have laws that deal with the food. Food are prohibited legally. We have things that you cannot go and buy in the market. He has to legislate on every issue in a falling world. So in acts 7:22, Put your hands in Acts 7:22 and look at Exodus 2. Pharaoh's daughter, verse 9. Take this child away. Nurse it for me. I will give thee thy wages. The woman took the child and nursed it. Verse 10. The child grew. And she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter. And he became her son. Look at that word. He became her son. And she called his name Moses. Because Jesus, the word, he became her son. There made means he was.

Now, you know, we said son, remember what son is someone that will take an inheritance. So a Pharaoh, all right, was over Egypt, spiritually speaking, judicially, legislatively, executive, and all of that. Moses, therefore will be. So the powers of Pharaoh, or being trained under Pharaoh, or being bothered by Pharaoh is cool. You will now learn an institution. Now that means that pay attention. He will be two times in idol worship. Yet don't forget that his mom had trained him to know the promise given to Abraham. So he will be like you and I who have God's word. And then we have our own education. I will now take advantage of an education that does not point to God yet to bring the word of God into our world. So Acts 7:22. Moses was learned. That shows you that he was a lawyer.