One of Paul's defenses is that I have not said any other thing than that which was taught written in the law of Moses and in the prophets and the Psalms. So the teacher of Scriptures is not flimsy. The teacher of Scriptures is a diligent, faithful listener. You know, therefore, that it means that you cannot. If you are in Lagos and you are in Kaduna, that's still closer. Or you are in Zambia. You must teach it in your world. And yet it mustn't contradict what was said in another world. The grammar, okay, the implication maybe, but theology, same. Let me show you. Follow what I'm saying. Are you getting this? It's same. So the writers of the epistles, how to merge the world together. And that is the job we have today. So how crucial is faith? Very crucial.

Without faith, a man will not understand the Scriptures. Why? Because it's a book of persuasion. So therefore the first bridge of the Old Testament and New Testament. Again, what I'm saying here is so elementary. But let's say the Scriptures and the Epistles. The first bridge is faith, not reason. Faith in Christ unveils the Scriptures, faith. So therefore New Testament or the Epistles is written with these unifiers. And this bridge. Let's go over it again. The authority of the Scriptures I said earlier, is that it's a book of theology. That is what it teaches, that is what it emphasizes. It's a book that reveals God. So I must settle that. First is a book that reveals God. It's a theological piece in a literary form. Let me add this quickly before we get to that we explored today.

I guess we'll do more of it tomorrow. Let me explore this. Please listen. Is a book or spiritual realities written in human language? Have you tried to say what is in your mind using someone's language before? Have you tried to say what? Have you tried to use someone's language to say what you have to say? Because that's too low for Almighty God. But now imagine that the God of the world now use frail Humanity's mode of communication. There is nothing that simplifies God to me like the Bible. That is why it's painful for me how we have treated it. Some of us have thought that the Bible is in one language. We even say Hallelujah is a heavenly language. Very ridiculous statements how who went there to find out? So we've made simple things complicated that God used human communication.

One of the things that we have to explore and I believe would also make more in a formal term, is that there is no way we will not have to research how Moses studied. To not know his mode of education is to take away some crucial elements in what we are saying. For example, we are going to see that the use of temple, right temple, for example, tabernacle, even the use of rest were things he learned here. What I'm about to say to blow your bubble, he learned from idolatry. So you will find today some historical books who say, what you are putting here is a one legend somewhere. Some people think it is therefore invisible. The Bible. I said no, it glorifies God. That means he used call it almost the basest mode of look, this is what you understand, right? Right.

Okay, I'm going to use this thing to explain myself. He used that when he was building a tabernacle. The issue of animal offerings, sacrifices. That's why you will see that in Genesis 4, there is nothing. In Genesis 3, there's nothing animal was doing that sin. Nothing that Abel offered animal. How? You are an intellectual from Egypt. You want to convince people who grew up in Egypt over 400 years. What are you going to use? Microsoft Word? The only language available to you is idol worship. You will move from twisted information to teach the statements of faith. When I see that, I see why Paul says how unsearchable are the riches of God's wisdom. Who will best understand only son and firstborn? You can't get it if you don't understand Egypt's language. So it says, Egypt is my firstborn. I mean Israel is my son.

Israel is my firstborn. That means I'm going to reign through you. My inheritance is for you. It is used in Egypt for the person who takes over the throne and inheritance. That was why when we say Jesus is the son of God in your own language today, you say it means you are born. No, no, no, no. That's why John was very careful when he uses for Jesus mono genius. He changes it to us. When I say we are born of God, he changes his own to that is uniquely unique. In origin, he doesn't use birth for Jesus incarnation. He uses origin because the phrase son is Exodus. And he threw that back to pay attention to Abraham. And he saw that narrative. You saw Adam, that two children. But you say, who is the son? Abel. He didn't get it. Abraham had to.

You now show you that. Okay. One was born by the slave. If you say one was born by the slave and you are in Egypt, he's teaching you. What do you think he's talking about? Bondage, sin? There's nothing wrong with Ishmael. It's just that there's no. Nothing we can use him for but slavery, bondage and sin. Sorry. So you come out of that and you now say my son, my only son, Isaac. Your mind should go to the Egypt use. Which is what? The inheritance and the kingdom. If you miss that, you now have Jacob and Esau. In other words, he's showing you that the concept of son is inheritance. So Jesus is the son because he inherits all the property promises and the prophecies. Does it make sense? So argue with. Mostly God doesn't give birth. Leave that one.

That is a miniature expression of the word sun. So we are left to. Now, did you see what I just did? Now, if we say sun, your mind will be three people, four people, sons. Son is the male child of your children. Children. Whereas when Israel was called son, it was boy and girl, male and female. So the concept of. And why did he. Why was the male reference they use? Because in Egypt it is the male that are kings. But he has told you in Genesis 26:28 that male and female created Eden. So it lets you know that. Look, I'm using narratives. So when he says we have not received the spirit of bondage, again to fear. What is the underground narrative Exodus, but the spirit of adoption, where God picked that nation out of Egypt and made them his heirs.

Who's following what I'm saying here? So featuring a text without the narrative behind it, you can't arrive at what the author meant. So it's theology. And that theology already is revealed in Jesus. That's clear, right? Is that clear? Come on, guys. That clear? The authority is already revealed in Jesus. So we have a duty. Look at the same word. I just explained now, son. I thought son is my boy. No, no. That's why you find the use of technon and Ohios most of the time. When you read Ohio used for the sun. It is that Exodus narrative. To the land, to the promise. Techno now will refer to a child, a seed. Now confused people have said, when you are born again, you are a child, you go into a son. Oh God. Stop that nonsense.

Just go to the Old Testament and what we just said now becomes clear to you. So when in Galatians 4, Paul says we are all under the law, do you know what he was talking about? He has brought the Exodus narrative to your mind. He is saying what says there were children there. He meant you were sinners under bondage till the time appointed of the Father. Which is the. Is it the set of cattle like that? What is called now exact cattle or something? A Latin or Greek. Sorry, a Greek ceremony. It brings a Greek ceremony to say, let me tell you what God did in the land of Egypt, you know that's your own. Where a child is left to tutors and governors till time appointed of the Father. Okay? It's the same way that were sinners and God sent forth his Son.

Oh, you know what we now did? We now put the Greek ceremony as God. Because of careless reading. So in other words, theology therefore has been invested in the person of Jesus. It means that the authority is not in letters, it's in Christ. The authority is in Christ. Matthew 28:18. The authority is in Christ. The authority is found in the person of Jesus. But you know what? Jesus now wields that authority to the written word. You know how to get this? He wields that authority to the written word. How? By the things that he taught, by the things that he said. Luke 24, 25, 27, Luke 24:44. These are the words which I said to you while I was reading to you. All things must be fulfilled.

And what the synoptic writers did was to ensure that we saw it, that he fulfills the Scriptures. First Corinthians 15, 3 and 4. How Christ died for our sins. Catastascraphas according to the Scriptures. Romans 16:25, 26 can go on and on. It shows that, yes, it's like this. The Scriptures testified of him. Pay attention, please. He testifies for the Scriptures. The Scriptures glorify him. He validates the Scriptures. Now, you know, some people say, no, it's not the Bible that saved you, it's Christ that saved you. It's true. But a Christ without the Scriptures never saved you. So they walk hand in Italy. That's why we said that faith in Christ, therefore must be faith in the Scriptures. May I add this quickly? I think I've said this over the years, that the Old Testament and the New Testament rise or fall. Together.

Let me say it again. The rice and fall together. So therefore I must never assert a truth that is not adequately explained with the Old Testament text because that is where the truth was taught from. That is where the truth was taught from. So if you ask me what is the authority of the Scriptures, can I say Christ? If you ask me what's the authority of Christ, can I say the Scriptures? Yes. The second thing is, yes, the Scriptures focus on a person, yet it is for the whole world. It's for a person, yet it's for the whole world. The moment I accept the Scriptures as one and the same, the 39 books, I will accept the Messiah of the Scriptures. Don't forget, Messiah is not a spiritual word just like Christ. It only has a spiritual implication or application.

So it's like the word Elohim. Let me add this. The word Elohim or the word Yahweh, I am is just letters of the Hebrew language derived from the way the Greek Hebrew alphabets were used. But let me pause from that. Then when you say, for example, I've lost somewhere, what am I talking about? Huh? Yes, the focus is on Jesus. By the time you read everything, you see the deliverer and all of that. But by the time you find what is a deliverer for, it's for the whole world. So Paul's identification truth comes into relevance. EW Kenyon said this and he blessed my heart in his book Identification. He said that the key to reading the Bible is identification. Very correct. So is the Christ meant to be identified in. Yes. When you have Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, that already shows you a pattern.

The inheritance, you say Abraham, then you have Isaac, then you have Jacob. So identification is an interpretation method where you might not be the immediate reference or the immediate audience, but. But you are the implied goal for that reference. What do I mean? God picked Israel as a nation for all the nations. Why? Israel is supposed to house the Messiah of the nations. So whilst the Scriptures will be directed at Israel, the implied audience will be every nation who's following what I'm saying here. Do you understand that? So I look at the extended goal, Israel, the world. That that's why it only takes dishonesty for a Jew not to read the prophet and see a prevalent promise for the Gentiles. Prevalent.

And it is prevalent in the fact that the prophets signified the failure of Israel in their covenant tasks and showed that yes, God made a promise to you. But if you do not believe, the promise doesn't have effect. Yet if those that the Promise wasn't made to directly believe. The promise has effect. It's all in the prophets. So therefore, while it is directed at a person, it goes to every nation by implied audience. Ephesians 1:10. That in the dispensation, the fullness of times. Now look at that word fullness. Remember the word times of times. He might gather together in one, all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, which are on earth in him. Look at the word time, what we call eternal life. Everything he says, he might gather together in him.