Let us pray. Our Father, in the name of your son, Jesus, we once again thank you for such a time to fellowship around the written word. Thank you for yesterday evening and the illumination that you bring to our path always. And we ask, Father, in this service that you grant to us insight into the Scriptures. No one here is wise to claim to know we all become as fools so that we can become wise as babes, so that we can mature and know the knowledge that is found in your son, Jesus. Together as a church, we behold Jesus, your son, as he sees us in him. We declare that he is glorified even as we are edified. Amen. Hallelujah. All right. I don't know what kind of speed we require today, but it's going to be a kind of speed either way.

First Corinthians 15, as we did in the series of Matthew, would move off the core discussion and go elsewhere. It is relevant though, but it has a wider application and implication and wise to pay good attention. First Corinthians 15 and verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you have received and wherein you stand, by which also you are saved, if you keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the Scriptures, that he was seen of Cephas, and then of the 12.

And yesterday in the teaching on the book of Luke, we said the word preached has a loud and sound emphasis, whether from verse 1, then verse 3, and then verse 11, and then again verse 12, verse 14. The preaching is the announcement, the ke ruzo, where you make an announcement of a particular incident or a fact. And then we looked at the word gospel again, don't forget the word gospel. Like I said yesterday, we have the word eu, which is cognate with the word kathos. I think I made that mention yesterday. While some Greek translators of the Old Testament will use the word eu, many will use the word kathos, that is their cognate. They are similar things. And then we said it means the news of that good thing that God had promised.

And we said that from the very context of Genesis 1 and 2, we can know what God has promised. What is the good thing he has promised will be found in Genesis 1 and 2. And then Isaiah now calls it Anhua jaleion, a message and a Messenger of Genesis 1 and 2 or a message. And a messenger of Genesis 1 and 2 is a messenger of the Genesis 1:1. Heaven and earth is a messenger of the spirit of God over the nations. Genesis 1:2 is a messenger of the preaching of the gospel. Light out of darkness. Genesis 1:3, Light separated from darkness, that's judgment. Genesis 1:4 and 5 is a messenger of the seed, the first fruit. Genesis 1:11 can go on and on the nations. Genesis 1:9 is a messenger of Genesis 1:26, 28 male and female created ye them then Genesis 2:18.

It's not good that man be alone, that is not EU or it is not cathars that man be alone, but will make and help meet. And either it's a messenger of that two shall come together that shall become one flesh is that messenger. That is the word huajalion the gospel. So when you say huajalion, it's both the message and the messenger and the content of the message itself. So Isaiah now says, there is someone who is anointed. Isaiah 42, verse 1, verse 7 as well. 52 Verse 7. How beautiful are the feet of him that brings glad tidings of good things. Paul will quote that in Romans 10, verse 15 through to 16. And you know that's where you also have your feet shut with preserve God full of peace. Ephesians 6 and 16, that's 15. Yeah, you have all that.

So you see it all interwoven in the narratives of Scripture. So the gospel will have to refer to what Moses writes first. Because we said in our study in Genesis that Moses wrote an after fact creation story, not as it's happening creation story. And he weaves God's news around the creation story. He uses creation and what is made to explain what has not been done and what has been promised. It's like using what you can see to explain what you cannot see. And that is the essence of Genesis 1 and 2. Precisely. A lot of studies will keep being done in those texts of scripture. So the background of this is to assert that in other words, when Isaiah says whoa Jalion. He now adds, God reigns, so he brings in that. Then he brings in the kingdom. Okay, the kingdom.

The king has returned, the king is reigning, the king is ruling and all of that. Then he says, who has believed our report? In whom is the harm of the lord revealed? Isaiah 53, verse 1. Then he describes how the kingdom will be established, how the good news will be factored in the facts of it. How Jesus is rejected of men. You know he was the visage. The appearance of him was not to be desired. He bore our infirmities, bore our sicknesses by stripes were healed all we like sheep of God. He describes how the good news will be the facts of it. Then he says again, Isaiah 60:1, verse 1, the Spirit of the Lord is upon me. He has anointed me to preach that good news. The Whoa, Jalion.

So the word good news or the word gospel is an Isaiah narrative, but an Isaiah narrative, preaching from Genesis through Deuteronomy, and so on and so forth. Now, that said, a critical part is what Paul now says in verse three, Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures. That is against the background, or when we refer to all of the scriptures, we said that there's no particular verse is referring to. Rather, it's calling the attention of the reader to read the Bible again, to read Jesus Genesis through to Malachi again. And as he reads, Paul will say, you will see, Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. He was buried and rose again the third day according to the Scriptures.

And yesterday, in the teaching of Luke, I made mention of the fact that when you have raised from the dead as the epochal event there, as the key moment there, that already assumes other facts. It assumes that he died, it assumes he's buried. And it's not just a false assumption. It's assumed that he lived. It's assumed he was killed, he was persecuted, he was rejected. It's assumed that he was born, as we know, by a woman. It's assumed, therefore that there was a life and there was death and life after the death. So that means by saying Christ died for our sins, he was raised again the third day. It has brought in all the facts put together. We said that therefore the gospel will also refer to Jesus birth and Jesus, that's incarnation, what we call the incarnation today, and his sufferings.

It also includes the example that he bore. So when it says according to the Scriptures, it's a phrase the Pauline revelation used a whole lot of times. Romans 1. I was saying last day, when I was thinking about today, I said, we're going to copy when you are doing an exam. And in Nigeria you call it Expo Orijo. I think last people call it same thing or something like that. One word like that, you know, they are in Ekpe or Joe and those areas, you know, so those kind of words in context have to do with how they were raised. But the point is that we're going to. We're going to have to look at Areas that we shouldn't look at normally.

But for the purpose of this series, so that we will not take too much time, we'll have to look back and not make an assumption. So in Romans 1, it says Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God. I told you to take note of that. When we're looking at Luke yesterday, that word separated to the Gospel of God is the same word in Acts 13, two separate me, Barnabas and Saul. And so you have Luke and Paul using the same narratives. And then verse two, which he had promised before pro apogelo, it says by his prophet in the Holy Scriptures. Again, you see, he doesn't single out anybody. It says by his prophets.

It doesn't mention whether there are eight of them or ten of them, but it tells you to just read all the prophets in the Holy Scriptures. And so when we see things like this, I told you yesterday, there's a shorthand. Shorthand of reading the entire Bible. That is, when you read the entire Bible, what you will see is what God has promised, says concerning his son, Jesus Christ, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh. Then that shows you again that when he said made of the seed of David according to the flesh is post 1st Samuel era. And then it says in verse 4 declared the Son of God with power according to the spirit of holiness by the resurrection from the dead. That's the fulfillment in the four Gospels.

In Romans 16:25, Paul makes the same kind of assertion. Now to him that is on power to establish you according to my Gospel. Okay? And it says the preaching of the of Jesus Christ according to the revelation of the mystery which was kept secret since the world began. And that is Genesis. Again, cigal. Cigal doesn't mean absolute silence. It simply means you can say controlled speaking. So the cigar there is controlled speaking either by the virtue of audience or by the virtual vocabulary to be used 1st Corinthians 14, 26, 27. If any speaks with tongues, let it be by two at most by three, and by that cost let one interpret. The 28 says, if there be no interpreter, I.e. Amongst those who amongst the speaker, the tongues, let him keep silence and let him speak to himself and to God.

Let him keep silence and let him speak. Which means it's not absolute silence, it's just what he's saying. And because again, within that is also the concept of a mystery, Musterion, etc. So you have the word cigars is not like shut your mouth because it's Shut your mouth. That. That means there was nothing in the Scriptures. Because if it's silence, that means there's nothing written. But if something is written, it means it is a relative or controlled speaking. And that controlled speaking, we found out, is the mode of communication. A lot of imageries, cryptic speaking, parabolic speaking, etc. Etc. That is the cigal there. So basically, verse 26, but thou is made manifest and by the scriptures of the prophets and according to the commandment of the everlasting God made known to all nations for the obedience of faith.

Again, no text is in reference here. And like we have said a couple of times, and I said that in Matthew, precisely one of the greatest injustices that we are dealing with is the breaking up of scriptures into verses and chapters. It's a great injustice. It has robbed us of the. The flavor of Bible study where you really have to read the Bible and not make those. Should I say interruptions in your thinking? Pump verse three. You know, there's an interruption in your thinking. I mentioned yesterday also the titling of the books of. Sorry, of the paragraphs. Or should I say chapters. You see a chapter, for example, in Matthew 19, Jesus. I saw one yesterday. Jesus speaks against divorce, which is not a problem, but it narrows down your thinking immediately. You see that.

And so when he says, what God has joined together, let no man put asunder. Which should have addressed your mind to the fact that he expanded the narrative from just two people coming together to marry to a greater fact. Because we have seen that, you know, just like the prodigal son, the story of the prodigal son. And we said, nobody mentioned prodigal son. There was no that word. Prodigal son didn't come out of the mouth of Jesus. But again, some people are putting. And look at how strong it is if I say prodigal son, you go and open somewhere and it's not a verse of Scripture, but somebody just interrupted your thinking. And that goes into the verses. Like I said yesterday, when we said the book of Luke, the act of the apostles, we said, really? Which apostles?

And then from basic study of the book of Luke, we found out that historically and contextually, it is a defense brief. All right. For Paul. And I highlighted that for you. Basically, where Paul is absent is just the first eight chapters in 28 chapters. First eight chapters. By the ninth, Paul has entered. By the tenth, Yoshi become your appearance by Peter Cameo. Just to. And look at the. Maybe I should just say this. It's not part of my teaching at this point. But look at this. You bring in Peter just before Paul, there's the Samaritans. Okay? Just before there's a Samaritans, non, not totally Jewish. Then you have Paul in Acts 9. Then the next story is Peter with the Gentiles. You are already introducing Paul.