And even some of these applications, I can tell you theology behind them There is almost absolutely none without a bias. There was not a guy me and Samayo saw. He said he saw something. He now said that a text I use that in his own say comes out as Orahu. I said it's not so. He now brought I said, he now showed me the eastward Pay attention. He now showed me the dictionary meaning. I said, give me the Greek text. So he's now brought in Greek text. That's the Greek though they have a Greek. And I said is this what is there? He said no, he was not looking at was there his car. I said that's not what is there. The translator who is the east word user just decided to put what he thinks should be there. So this is the original.

Because he cannot be. He cannot be held responsible for his own commentary translation. But if he changes the original Greek word there will be a problem. Do you understand what I just said now? So we have a duty. Someone said, but why is there so much challenges? It is God's word that is the most important book in this world. You are just starting. There will be millions of translations. I will say, hey, because it is. They are the words of eternal life. It is subject to attack. People want to read their meaning into it. They want to put in a man made God. There is. They want to put their I'm telling you, look at King James Bible and other 1611 how many years now? About almost a thousand years now a predominant translation and it is fair than many other ones.

Another one came out a few years ago. There was even one totally reformed where he there's one particular John 6:44. I said, Why would you translate it this way? Just to show that it's the sovereignty of God that brings salvation. I now called the guy said let's look at this Greek word. We now saw they had six or seven options. He now picks the one that did not have a corroboration in the Old Testament. I now ask a question. Is it possible for this text to exist without Otan said no. So where can we find a good enough Yali translation? We now saw it is the son of Solomon. Okay. Can Songs of Solomon be using force? We now saw it. No, it's toasting.

Whereas what you put your transition was that God will force because you know the word can also be used for. For. Praise God. Some people say, why are you stressing yourself this much? Because it's God's word. Amen. Because it's God's word we must stress ourselves. Amen. Now Tell you when you are writing. Don't rush, think very well. People must hear it, they must read it and make sure they are reading good God's word, not my own, not in thinking, not my experience, not how I feel. So let's go back here. So we will misunderstand God the moment we misunderstand the language. There has never been a contradiction in the scriptures. It's only statements that require explanation. Let's see a particular text. We're going to look at it again on Tuesday. Ezekiel 14. We are going to see 2 Ezekiel 14.

Imagine if you had to read this verse 9 to 10. And if the prophet did deceived when he has spoken a thing, I, the Lord have deceived the prophet. Imagine if he's an atheist that first showed you this. And I'll set out my hand upon him and I will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel after deceiving him. And they shall bear the punishment of their iniquity. The punishment of the prophet shall be even as punishment of him that seeks unto him. Now, how would you say that it was how they saw God? Are you following what I'm saying here? Now look at Jeremiah I now present. Okay, I now give Jeremiah 29, verse 8 and 9. For thus saith the Lord God, the Lord, oh God of Israel.

Let not your prophets and your diviners that be in the midst of you deceive you. Neither akin to your dreams which you cause to be dreamed for. They prophesy falsely unto you in my name, I have not sent them, saith the Lord. Is this not contradiction? Let me tell you what the Calvinists say. They said that this is God's sovereignty at work, that God is the ordaining is the one that ordains false prophets, that he uses false prophets to sanctify his saints. But how would you explain it away? They're usually that it is the way they said the way. You know the elect that God will ordain? He purifies the elect by ordaining false teachers. So the elect are thus purified and separated from those who are not elect, both election and politician that them shall be.

But if I take a hold now by looking at that Jeremiah, if I. If I have faith. Look at this. If I have faith in God and I look at Jeremiah and I look at Ezekiel, I will know there's something I need to understand. I wouldn't protest Ezekiel and isolate Jeremiah. I know that Numbers 23:19 says God that is not a man, that he can lie. I know that Psalm 89 verse 33 to 35 says that God does not. God forbids. Psalm 89:33 to 35 I know that God. Forbids his prophets from lying. My covenant alter the thing that has gone out of my mouth. I know that already. I know Titus 1:2 says he cannot lie. I know Hebrews 6, 17, 18 the same thing.

I know Deuteronomy chapter 32, verse 4 says, There is no iniquity in him he is a rock, his work is perfect. Zerub32 4 and all his ways are joss or judgment. His God of truth without iniquity, just and right. Rather, verse 5 says they have corrupted themselves. Their sport is not the sport of his children. They are a perverse and crooked generation. I know that. I also know that there is a liar, an accuser. Job I know there was a deceiver in Genesis 3:1 7:2 13:2 Corinthians 4:4 I know Revelation 12:9 says there's a deceiver. Revelation 12:10 I know in the book of Acts we had a man eliminates the sorcerer who was obviously filled with an evil spirit. So therefore my answer in Ezekiel will be that phrase will be permissive verb, not a causative one.

Therefore, Ezekiel 14:9 is written in a common Hebrew language that God is only said to do what another did that he knew of and just had to allow without having a choice, rather than see it as contradicting God's character. And I see it as a mode of language that needs to be explained. So therefore I must the way out here is to exeges systematically. Now let me give you a warning to the escapism or escapist theology of running to the New Testament. Every time you are part of the Old Testament will land you into trouble. Because what it will do is to say to your audience that the Old Testament is not reliable. It is therefore not reliable where the New Testament come from. You say the Old Testament, you therefore contradict yourself.

So we must harm ourselves with enough resources of explaining why the New Testament explains the Old Testament like this as a corroboration of what it says. Am I making sense? Because the attitude of going to the New Testament, even though you have it today to explain text of the Old Testament is escapist is fraught with danger. What you are saying is that the Old Testament is unreliable. So every reader of literature knows that in the introduction of books, just like Genesis, concepts are laid out in a generic form so that words used after can be brought back to the introduction to be re explained. If I see death anywhere. I go Back to Genesis 2 everything was good. Genesis 3 sin brought death. If I see hatred, everything was good. Genesis 3 sin came. I see God's lamentations, God's helplessness.

I come back to the intro. So what I have later in maybe Exodus or Numbers will be language. Since the Bible is theology, the writers and hear what I'm about to say. Jewish and Hebrew writers, because of the awe of God and their Hebraism, will not dare not to include God in anything they were saying. Even when he did nothing, God was so awed that anything that happened, his name was mentioned, even where he was not active. I mustn't therefore, in any submission of mine, make an allusion to the fact that the Old Testament is unreliable. Look at Ezekiel 20. I know I've explored this before. Verse25 wherefore. Now when I say wherefore in English, it means something happened before wherefore. I gave them also statues that were not good, and judgments whereby they will not live.

I polluted them in their own gifts, in that they were caused to pass through the fire, or that opened the womb, and I may make them desolate to the end, that they might know that I am the Lord. Ezekiel 20:25 but look at verse 24. Because they executed not my judgments, but despised my statutes, and had polluted my sabbaths, and their eyes were after their father's idols. So that means 25 is not causative, it's permissive. In other words, I watch them do this. Look at isaiah 63, Verse 17. O Lord, Thou wast thou hast thou why has thou made us heir from thy ways, and hardened our heart from thy fare? Return for thy servant's sake. The tribes of thine inheritance. What does he mean by you made us heir? Look at the statement, return for thy servant's sake. The tribes of thy inheritance.

Verse 18 the people of thy right holiness are possessed but a little while adversaries are thrown down the sanctuary where thine thou never bear rule over them they were not called by your name. O thou will reign the heavens. Chapter 64, verse 1 that thou will come down that the mountains. So in other words, they were talking about them being in error because of God's departure. So God made them err by not being there. Jeremiah 7, verse 30 for sure of Judah have done evil in my sight, saith the lord.

They have set their abominations in the house which is called by my name to pollute it and they have built the high place of Topheth which is the valley of the son of Aenon, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire which I commanded them not, neither came it into my heart. So what we have found is not a contradiction. It's exactly what people did that God could do nothing about. Jeremiah 44, verse 4. You could check that later. Don't forget Psalm 81, it's a key text. He said, I gave them up unto their own hearts. I gave them up. That's Romans 1:28. I gave them over. All you need to do is to allow the Scriptures interpret itself. Oftentimes when an Hebraism idiom is used in a chapter, the historical fact of it is in the next chapter.

Sometimes it's just like saying and God sent them out of the garden. If you just read the chapter before and the verses before, you will know that say where are you? So it means that just by reading all the contents you will with the history of what happened to that in that statement, know what exactly happened, put it in context. So even without external resources, where or like today I was saying earlier that we have all these concordance we have that writers of those days didn't have it. All they did was to read carefully and listen well. Old Testament commentaries and commentators spoke against hasty listening, hasty reading and hasty speaking. A man we can accrue from the concept of hasty speaking is Job. I said yesterday that Job is a key to how things are written.

Make this very loud in your notes that God uses our language. So if he didn't use your language in Genesis, you must go and find out whose language he used. Or let me put it in a better way, which language was used to communicate what he said. And by reading through the commentaries of the Old Testament, I will come to know what was said. Let's look at Job. That's a good way to end today. Job. Now you know the background of that story. The first thing the writer lets us see about Job was that was upright and perfect, which we said is innocent and a good man, peaceful man. Job 1:1. Then that he said, it may have been verse five, that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. He did it continually.

Then the writer was able to show us a Satanaus in the Greek, a diabolic person, Satan, who came among the sons of God. Again, don't forget this is purely poetic. Some that don't know this, anytime the sons of God are gathered, Satan is there. Where do you come from? I mean, why would God be asking you? So this is basically showing you by Saying, where do you come from? Toe and fro, walking up? So when you see Peter says the devil, six women they devour. It's a. An expediency statement that, look, guys, what happened to Job can happen to anybody. He goes around the earth is a rhetoric that is immature. There was no conversation. What is the writer of Job doing? Is confronting people on the justice of God. That God is just. So he uses a man's story to correct our impression.