1: Ephesians 4. Quick, quick, quick, quick. Now we're going to do a bit of branching and I'm going to move a bit fast. A bit of branching here. It's. I'm a bit in a hurry that I shouldn't be. Because a crucial part of this teaching for me. We want to be able to connect this series to ministry gifts and the gifts of the spirit rate. And the reason why I've taken. We're almost in the second year, third year. We started high 20. 22, Right? 23. This 20. So that this is the third year, right? Not three years, third year. There's a difference, right? It is the third year. Okay. The reason why we started it is to be able to assert is actually a systematic defense of the charismatic mystery. Eventually the basis of it.
2: And look at Ephesians 4 and like I said, I'm a bit in a hurry. Not necessarily in a hurry. I want to fast track something. Then we'll go back again. Are you here? So Ephesians 4 and now verse 8. Wherefore he saith, when he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive and gave gifts unto men. The hypsos hair is heavenly. Heavenly on high. This is Jesus's resurrection. He that ascended, what is it? Also descended first in the lower parts of the earth. He that ascended is the same also that descended so ascended far above all heavens that he might feel all things so supernatural world There. Now listen to this. Look at Ephesians 1. In Paul's prayer he asks for insight for every believer. Okay.
3: That the eyes of our understanding being enlightened, that we may know what is the hope of his calling and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints and what is the exceeding greatness of his path towards what we believe according to the working of his mighty power. Now, Paul is not playing here. He's very clear about the supernatural world of the believer. So he now says, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenlies, uses the word huporaneous or two words that depict the heavenly materiality of the Old Testament. Pay attention now. Why is it, why is it smooth for Paul to say this? Because his audience is accustomed to the Old Testament.
4: Moses went in and out of heaven, Solomon did, Abraham did so they were accustomed to the use of heaven. Look at the next one. It says far above all principalities, power and might and dominion, and every name that is named. We've done the study here that this is Breaking down the host of heaven. Right, okay. That is named not only in this world, but in that which is to come, which means that includes the new creation. And I put all things under his feet and gave it to the head of all things, to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth oil. Now look at the next chapter. There it says in six. And he raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus, that in the ages to come.
5: Sorry, I actually skipped verse five. When we're dead in our sins, he quickened us together with Christ by grace. Are you saved? And raised us up to sit together in the heavenly places. So now is Paul using Old Testament grammar? Yes. So no doubt the supernatural context of Scripture was retained of the Old Testament. Sorry, was retained by the New Testament writer. And more. So he now, as it were, equates the experiences of the patriarchs, the king, the prophet and the priest, with that of the believer. Paul has split those things by using kingdom, he calls believers kings. Right. By talking about offering service, he calls us so he calls us kings. By using kingdom, by using servants, serve, which is from the word abbad darkonos, it means we are priests.
6: By saying that we prophesy, we have the manifestation of the Spirit, we have the indwelling of the Spirit. Paul is saying that we are also prophets. And these are three heavenly offices of the Old Testament. The priest functions in heaven, the king functions in heaven, and the prophet functions in heaven. Heaven means supernatural offices. What is intended here is not just the salvation experience, but the location of the believer in God's scheme of things. So in Ephesians 4, he says he gave gifts to men. The word doma is in fact there d o m a which is a deposit, enablement or something that describes a quality of what belongs to you. Then it talks about charisma much later, which is a faculty that is given and stays with you.
7: So having said all that, the concept of heaven, which is the supernatural world in Matthew 16, 18, 17, I'll give to you 18 the keys of the kingdom into 19 whatever you bind on earth is bound in heaven. It gives that fact of the believer's functionality as heavenly. And we can go on and on in taking decisions in church. So whatever we bind on earth is also bound in heaven. Heaven Matthew 18 from verse 15 through to verse 17, 18 through to 20, 21, where two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them. So the Old Testament, there's no doubt which we are probably going to run through in a moment. There's no doubt that the Old Testament is largely supernatural. The question now is whether the New Testament is as supernatural.
8: Now, this is why, if you notice what I taught at World Changers Conference, that why shouldn't it not be? Why should it not be? The reason why we think that way is the reductionism approach. One, two is the underlining cessation, thinking God doesn't do this anymore. And it stems from the Old and New Testament dichotomy, which I believe to a large extent we have unbundled. Assuming there's an Old Testament that God doesn't deal with in the New Testament. Already informed. You see, when it comes to. Let me say something. When it comes to theology, like I mentioned, logic, a premise. Premise is all very important. What. Why did you. What is. Why did you or what did you premise this? I mentioned this one in one meeting.
9: And, and I said to someone, I said, we're talking about salvation and eternal salvation, internal security, and a debate that has spanned for centuries. I will go on till God knows when. And I said, let me ask you one question which is very simple. I said, I need one single Bible character who lost his salvation. One person who was saved, then lost his salvation. The guy went back and forth. I said, I'm not asking you to open the Book of Hebrews. So we find Sapphire. Now, is he the unbelieving Jews just mention. Is it difficult? One person. I said, okay, can you mention those who were saved? You could mention those ones. Okay. The ones that were unsaved after a while, not one single person you could mention.
10: Because as I said to the fellow, I said, if it's about what they did afterwards, then much of the Bible characters who are acknowledged in the Epistles will be acknowledged. So where are you getting the loss of salvation doctrine from? Then you. Okay, what happened in that? Paul's warning in 1 Corinthians 10. 1 Corinthians 10 has a background. He had called them spiritual, born of the Spirit. He had said they had the mind of Christ. He had said they were saints. He had given you enough explanation of who they are. He had said they are washed, such were some of them. They are joined together with Christ. But he has said also that they were acting like they were not. So if he's going to say that, what will be the illustration of their actions? The Exodus story.
11: Don't jump to First Corinthians 10 and skip First Corinthians 1, 2, 3, 4, ABBA. There must be a Premise for what you are saying. So now, usually those who argue that God is no longer doing this anymore, they have a strong basis to argue against us if we think alike. Or what we call the finished work of Christ. For example, what do we call the finished work of Christ? The Old Testament has been fulfilled, meaning it's no longer in force. Faulty. What do we call the finished work of Christ? The demands of the law have been met by Jesus. Then you say, which one? You say all, including how you build your house. Did you build any house, including how you marry your wives? No. That concept of fulfillment is what now lends credence to done away with.
12: So the minute you miss it from that point it will be difficult to argue against, the gifts have also ceased. Since you already have a pattern of God where he stops doing something, you follow what I'm saying here? It's logical that if you think like this, then you have to think like this. But when? Why do we think this way? Because we have assumed that Christ finished. There was a demand of the Old Testament that the Old Testament saint could not meet. So Jesus now made that demand that God has a requirement for righteousness. That he gave that requirement. I mean even that. Oh gosh. He saw somehow that God gave man to do something. He knew man could not do it, but he gave man to do it.
13: But when he now saw that man could not do it, then he now called him son to come and do it. So I know you are in primary one. I now give you nuclear physics to solve. I know you cannot do it. But when you now fail, you now run back to me. Then I now say, let me solve it for you. Now what would you call that kind of person in today's world? That kind of logic is funny. Do you understand? And the New Testament never tells us that the Old Testament faithful did not fulfill it. That statement has no basis in fact. More often than not, when the Old Testament saints are mentioned, they are said to fulfill by faith Noah, by faith Abraham. What does that mean? Without faith, it is impossible to please God. They were never said.
14: God gave them a vision, they couldn't fulfill it. So because they couldn't fulfill Jesus now came finished work of Christ. So it is finished. They now say we don't have to do it anymore. Christ has done it for us. That do what? Everything. Like what? All these laws. Now before you build the house, you must have balcony. You cannot wear. Jesus has done that. For how did he do it for you? Did he build balcony? Premise becomes faulty. So until we undo the thinking of thinking finished work of Christ is that the Old Testament is not in force anymore. Of course we must first of all define what the Old Testament is. And I think at the World Changers Conference I gave you the history of the word Old Testament, right? All those things are important facts.