1: Hebrews 11. One now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen by it. The elders obtained a good report through faith we understand that the walls were framed by the word of God, so that the things that are seen were not made of things which do appear. So the writer here and I said yesterday that there are three sermons like that typically summarize the Old Testament text for us. The first one is in Acts 7 done by Stephen. Second one is Acts 13 by Paul, and this seems to be the third one. Of course, it's in an epistle manner where the whole Testament is condensed and compressed into phrases, terminologies. That points you back to the stories.
2: I probably just add this, that the way Hebrews 11 is written gives us the idea of the codified language concept, which is where you read a verse and that verse compresses. For example, look at verse 7. By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an act to the saving of his house, by which he condemned the world and became heir of righteousness, which is by faith. This is highly codified. And then these are the events of Genesis 6 through to Genesis chapter 9. Arguably four chapters compressed into a few sentences or basically a few words. And it takes you back. It's not explaining everything about Noah. As you have seen, others picked up different themes. Let me just mention that Matthew 2:24 sorry, Jesus picked up a theme about Noah, Matthew 24 and verse 27.
3: As the days of Noah, so shall the coming of the Son of Man be. And he mentioned how they were taken away before the flood in 39. Then you now have first Peter. So this shows you they were not making an interpretation, rather it's applying first Peter 3:19, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison, who sometimes were disobedient, when once the long suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, whilst the ark was preparing, wherein few that his eight souls were saved by water. The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us, not the putting away of the field of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God by the resurrection from the dead. 2Nd Peter 3, sorry 2.
4: And spared not the whole world, but saved Noah the 8th person, the preacher of righteousness, bringing the flood upon the world, the ungodly. But look at Hebrews 11. You see that Hebrews 11. Adopts a different application. Hebrews 11 where he says, move with her praying, and acts the saving of his house, by which he condemned the world and became heir of righteousness, which is by faith. So you have the application there that is codified language. Now the context here it says the things that were seen were made of things that did not appear. We saw the word yesterday means that could be seen and observed with the physical eyes. So which means that the world is set upon both the natural and the supernatural. We said that this is not meant to be separated, but distinguished.
5: And so by saying in verse one, things hoped for things not seen, verse three, the things which are seen were made of things which do not appear, or were not made of things which do appear, obviously shows you that there is a supernatural context to the events of Scripture. Now the question we should probably look at is why is it not that obvious? Because you are likely just going to read a natural story. The truth is that the grammar of Scripture. The grammar of Scripture requires tedious and delicate study. There is a grammar within Scripture. First thing is that the grammar and the history will guide us to a couple of things that are explained. One of them is to see it through the Egyptian history. Why is this so?
6: Now much of what we call the Old Testament books are taken from the Torah. Torah is Genesis through to Deuteronomy. And it occurred to the man Moses. This book of the law, Joshua 1:8, John 1:17, the law came by Moses, was given by Moses. John 5:46 and 47, he wrote of me. So Moses therefore has that, what do you call it? Authority or the tag of writer. Yet in Acts 7 and Verse 22, Stephen says Moses was learned in the witness wisdom, all the wisdom of the Egyptians. He was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians. And maybe we could look at that word learned and the word wisdom, both words. The word learned there is the word pagiel, which if we're going to walk through the fact that this is Luke's writing, Luke and writing. And Luke is Paul's disciple.
7: And Paul uses the same word in 2nd Timothy 3:16. All scripture given by Scripture of God is prophetic for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction in righteousness. And therefore we see that Luke is obviously borrowing in Paul's words, says training up in righteousness. So Moses is somewhere in the mind, Acts 7:22, who was trained up. That is his doctrine takes a lot of grammar from the Egyptian world. They use a word Paul used a lot. Sophia, wisdom, insight. Okay, the Egyptians. So which means that Moses doctrine has the grammatically speaking now has the Egyptian worldview in mind. So I said yesterday, and I've said it also in other series that it's not out of place to see things in your Bible found in other books, historically speaking, in legends, because the Bible did not exist in a vacuum.
8: So it really matters to us that with the Egyptians, I mean with the Jews who stayed so long in Egypt, arguably over 400 years, they were exposed to certain patterns. Yes. They will look at motifs. Motif we said, is a recurring pattern, certain motifs. And the picture representation they had will form Bible grammar itself. Because that is their thinking, the thinking of the average Israelites. And do not forget that they didn't exactly have a unique culture to themselves. They came from the Chaldeans, there was a mixture of Mesopotamian. Then they had the ancient Near Eastern culture. Everything was mixed up. They came from Egypt. So when we notice the instructions given on holiness, it's to now he cut out a uniqueness, of course, in the worship of God that they had. So that they should have. Pardon me.
9: And you now have them having the worldview. So is there the Egyptian worldview in the Bible? Bible, not to frame your theology, but to communicate it? Yes, there is. And so because of that, all the biblical authors. All right, will use that background. Even though as time went on, when you go to the exile Babylon, the worldview will be multi layered. There will be the background of the Egypt because of the Torah and they'll also be their own present world. So which means that interpretation we must see through their eyes. We must hear what they heard. For example, I said yesterday, if you sat in their seat now today when we talk about garden, the Garden of Eden, for us, it's either way, depending on what you'll be exposed to.
10: But in the ancient near east, the concept of a temple is usually a garden temple. Which means that many of the temples built then had pillars of plants. So they used trees. I mentioned that in this earlier series that trees were meant to represent the supernatural world. So when they said tree of life, they were talking more of an imagery of a supernatural concept. So you have the garden temple. So if we had read it through the eye of the Egypt world, Egyptian world, we would have seen the Garden of Eden was a temple. Typical way of talking about a sacred place. That's all. It's what how they thought garden is the word Ghana, which is being somewhere covered, secured and what Eden simply means delight or special or sacred. And the way they built the temple.
11: All right, showed you an effigy or they built it. Referring to the temple space as also heavenly. So that's in their world. Okay. So the Egyptian temple was borrowed in construction by Moses. This is the reason why you notice that the Lord gave him a strict instruction, Exodus 25:40, that you build according to pattern. So the issue of lampstand had its history in the Egyptian temple. So the natural world for the Egyptian was meant to be a window to the beauty of the supernatural world itself. In Egyptian temples also, they had winged creatures which would typify what you call the seraphims and other beings. They were meant to, as it were, protect the Pharaoh. So you see those images in Exodus 26 and 31, Exodus 26. This is the building of tobacco. Verse 1 to 2.
12: Make the tabernacle with 10 cottons of fine linen, twined linen, blue, purple, scarlet, with tables of corning work thou make them restrict. Length of one setting shall be 8 and 20 cubits. The breadth of one curtain shall be 4 cubits. And every one of cotton shall have one measure. Verse 6. Thou shalt make 50 types of gold couple curtains together with it. So we had, you know, that image. If you go strictly like I said, through the Egyptian world, you see that there are similarities. Verse 31 reveal of blue, purple, scarlet. Now the blue also was supposed to refer to heaven, the skies, okay? Non calling work shall it be made. 32. Also look at Exodus 25:31. Candlestick of pure gold beading work shall the candlestick be made.
13: His shaft and his branches, his bowls, his copse knobs, and his last shall be of the same up to verse 40 when it says, look thou meet them after their pattern which was showed thee in the mount. Exodus 28:31 through to 33, Blue is also there purple. These are things taken from the Egyptian world. Then you have Exodus 37:9. Chaos spread out their wings on high and covered with their wings over the mountain. Messy seat with their faces one to another. Even to the mercy Eastward seat was sorry were the faces of the cherubims. And in 1st Kings 6:27, Solomon built after that pattern, even though they had left Egypt for a while. 1St Kings 6 and 27. I said, the kilo rooms within the inner house.
14: And he stretched for the wings, so that the king the wing of the one touched the one, and the wing of the other cherubim touched the other wall. So you see that Solomon retained it even though they are no longer in the wilderness. They're out of Egypt. But he retains that imagery. And the concept of wings flows Through Scripture. Psalm 91, verse 4 Psalm 17, verse 8. Psalm 17, verse 8. Keep me the apple hide Me under the shadow of thy wings. Psalm 36 and verse 7, the shadow of your wings. Psalm 91, verse 4. So you have the. The wings thing takes his account for from the Old Testament concept that's drawn from the Egyptian worship model. Now this shouldn't be. Like I said, this shows that the scriptures were not. They didn't exist in a vacuum. One second in a vacuum.
15: So you have the use of temple. Okay, Luke 13. Actually, why do I say 13? Luke 13 and 34. All right. O Jerusalem, which kills the prophets and stones them that are sent to thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together as a hen gathers a brood under our wings. And you will not. So Jesus also uses the wings concept. Then we have the concept of the nose, the nostrils. You notice that the nostrils too come up a lot. Genesis 2:7, Exodus 15:8. And with the blast of your nostrils, the waters were gathered together. Nostrils. And we said that typifies the spirit. For that speaks of the spirit. 2Nd Samuel 22:9. They went up a smoke out of his nostrils. 2Nd Psalm 20, Psalm 22:16. The blast of the breath of his nostrils. Psalm 18:8.
16: He went up a smoke out of his nostrils. Psalm 18:15. Now where is the nostrils concept coming from? Again? It's coming from the Egyptian world. Now read a very simple thing for us about the statues. I call it the Egyptian statues that they usually remove the nose. Why? Because they believe that the souls entered and exited through the nose. So when it says bridge the man's nostrils, the breath of life, that is from the Egyptian concepts. Okay, so the nostrils is where life is. So when a pharaoh is dead, they will remove the nose. And it's to show you it's dead, totally dead. So when they use nos is to speak about life. This is how life came. This is how life goes. And when you look at New Testament, you also have words like expired. So it borrows those phrases as well.