1: We apply speaking in tongues with Isaiah 28, not because Isaiah was talking about speaking in tongues. So those are. That's an application. But there must be interpretation before application. So one of the core issues in application is the most. You must have noticed theme. What's theme of the stories, then the dominant recurring thing, which is called the motif. So in Bible exegesis, we must therefore apply questions. You know, one of the things I define exegesis is when you ask questions. Remember that you are asking questions. What am I reading? What am I seeing? Questions that. Not mischievous ones, questions to get answers. Okay? Someone was saying one day, he said, this is not a good question.
2: He said, if you say God cannot kill or God does not kill, which I told you I've repeated it in a few months, that I don't use the phrase again, not because it's not correct, but because it can be misleading, particularly when people now read the Bibles and see it there, then you now look like you are twisting it. So one of the things a teaching ministry must always attempt to do is to work on your communication so that you are able to say it well. So usually the best form of communication when it comes to teaching is to let the facts speak for itself. Then the conclusion will be very clear. So you. Yeah, so what we have done is to backtrack a bit and say, let's redefine the concept of killing and all of that.
3: So when we do that, for example, when the person said so, I said, the more reason why we had to get much more tools to explain it, which is why we did some materials on the wrath of God. And you can see there's grammar. I almost struggled also on Sunday when I was talking about. I was talking about when where I struggled was because even though I could apply to the 5 silence because I'm the pastor of this church, but I kind of felt that I was talking to an audience, that maybe a good majority hadn't read the books or maybe had not even listened to the teachings. So when I said, this is not genocide, remember, I'm talking about, was it second service? This is not genocide, though, that. When was it for second service? Okay, second service. Okay. When.
4: When Samuel told Saul. But the point was, someone look at what is jealous, you know, because he doesn't have access yet, or he has refused to. To where we explained the exaggeration, hyperbole, terms. And went into the details that, oh, this one, they said there was no more male, female, no children. The next chapter, you saw people there that rhetoric is a word rhetoric. And also we have looked at the verbs, the nouns, the adverbs, the adjectives, the Hebrew language, that is very different from the English. So. And that takes studies. I remember when we talked about predestination, that was like 10 years ago and a Key part of experiment is that the Hebrew language does not have the space for destiny. What that is, you are destined for this. No, the Hebrew language doesn't have that space. It didn't have it.
5: If it didn't have it couldn't have been in his theology. That is there is no such language that you have destined. The Hebrew language does have a strong leaning towards conditionalities. This will happen if you do this. So fatalities and predetermination is not present in it. The Hebrew language. And that was an approach that we adopted in so great salvation. 4 I believe and we have expanded that the concept of foreknowledge, predestination and all that. So in exegesis you ask the right questions. Okay? Because no doubt you should be bothered about a commandment to not kill and scenarios of killing. You shouldn't be bothered that Jesus spoke about not killing and hatred. Now of course the easy way out is to say that's Jesus. He came to correct the impression of the Father is an easy way out. It's not wrong.
6: But it's fraught with many more challenges. So the best bet, and we cannot escape from it is to teach. Now I said something last night and I said the week before that we will cross many barriers when we stop using the Bible. That is pragmatism. After all, we got results. And I did. I think I showed us yesterday that it hindered God's plan by not knowing his word and his way. It hindered God's plan. He said they corrupted his way in the earth. Genesis chapter six, we saw it yesterday, right? Corrupted his way. Which means that God had a plan that was hindered. So in fact by the time you read consistently how God's plan was hindered in the Old Testament, precisely the concept of the predetermination will just be wiped off your head. You won't even think it.
7: So a dominant theme in our study, a recurring theme, is a motif we also said that the New Testament writers favor. These are just facts we must know. They favored the use of the Septuagint, which is the Old Testament in Greek. However, it doesn't in any way place total authority on the septuagints. Not at all. It doesn't mean that they endorsed it. I put a note here, I said they use different versions of it, which means at some point they had to alter or they had to, you know, so they had versions of the insurgents Bible. Now why would they question a version? That means they are also doing research. They had versions of it and so it was therefore because they were writing in Greek and their audience spoke Greek and Aramite, it therefore became necessary for them to look at versions.
8: I'll tell you what a version is, maybe it makes sense better. A Bible translation simply means a reader or a researcher looking for words closest to the original language. That's what it is. It's not a magical phrase. It's not at all a magical phrase. Like when we looked at, Was it visiting the iniquities of the fathers upon the children to third and fourth generation. And I think yeah, someone was saying, well, that world visiting, there's some versions use Polish. I said, they have the option. It's an option because it's grammar. But to restrict the interpretation to only grammar is full of challenges. You, you have to look at the overall context.
9: That's why we said that the words that follow in the Ten Commandments or visiting could not have been punishment, because the context of when that phrase was used in Deuteronomy 5 and Exodus 20. And then don't forget in our studies we said, what was the prior use of that word? Because a writer engages you systematically. You have read Genesis, you read Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, and you have seen clearly that the word packard means to look into something with the idea of taking care of it. So would he now switch in Exodus and destroy more. So what he's dealing with there is God's mercies to thousands of those that love him. You know, and I've said to us that the word thousands is actually a loan word. They did not have thousands, just that they didn't have millions.
10: The way we number is not how they numbered. It's usually groups and stuff like that. And did a bit of that study some of our books. So the power card we have the option of saying judge or take care of. Now when you take care of two, you are judging. When you are judging, you are taking care of. So is it the positive taking care of forgiveness or the not so positive of dealing with those who have wronged? So it's an option. So that's why you have versions. So you now sit back and look at the overall context. That's what I was telling you about that Hebrews 1:1. When that guy talked about the syntax and the normative case, I said, you are correct. But something you have not addressed is that the book is about comparisons.
11: So if there's a comparison between Jesus and the prophet, in what way is there a comparison? So he paused and said, I see it. I said, There must be a comparison. What's the comparison? Jesus is the character. The outshining is. So if it's the house shining character and that shows. Pay good attention now. That shows closeness to deity they talked about. I think it was James Franklin says that the rays of the sun, which means it came from God. So it's not an inspired speaker. It is God as a man, I said. Therefore those who say that Hebrews 1:1 is a spoke about God. Hebrews 1:2 is good. God speaks in Jesus. Have more clarity than what you just said.
12: They may not have gotten the communication correctly, but to say that God inspired one, God inspired two, and you have not even explained the comparison is fraught with challenges because you are going to go through the book of Hebrews with comparison up till Hebrews 13. So grammar alone doesn't solve it. But without grammar, you are going to be in soup. So we must go through every detail to know what God is saying. So I put it here. I said the New Testament is always pointing to the Old Testament, where it is confirming what is written, explaining it and fulfilling it, giving us more clarity to it. The challenge is, where did it explain? It is a. Is an application embedded with an explanation? Yes, but it is in a codified silence. I'm going to take that again. Does application involve interpretation?
13: You couldn't even have applied if you have not interpreted. But would you find the interpretation in the application? Almost no. But it is assumed that you are the audience that the writer is speaking to. So when I read the New Testament, there's always according to the Scriptures. According to the Scriptures is not prophecy. According to the Scriptures is not interpretation. According to the Scriptures, more often than not is application. So can I preach the New Testament without the Old Testament? I will be incoherent. So I must always preach the Old Testament and the New Testament together. The New Testament has its history of theology in the Old Testament. So we've always said that the term Old Testament must be well defined. Deuteronomy, for example, is new covenant documents.
14: And where we find the concept of new covenants, I dare say that the Old Testament theology is woven around Deuteronomy. We might one day just have to go back to it again. I always feel unfulfilled about the teachings I've done around Jerusalem. Very unfulfilled. I will need to get back there again because it forms a basis of Paul's theology. Paul's theology of gentile inclusion is Deuteronomy. Jesus's approach to the temptation in the wilderness is Deuteronomy. So Paul's life language in Rome, Paul's language in Galatia when he was talking about Christ fulfilling the promise of Abraham. Deuteronomy. So we must therefore go back to Deuteronomy and see it. And someone said, why is it that strong? Notice that's Moses knowing he's not going to the Promised land. So he does the teaching ministry quickly. That's my own phrase.
15: He begins to do what he will have done in the Promised land. So he codifies and he condenses his teaching in Deuteronomy, knowing they are going there. So, like he's giving a teaching note to their teachers. So Deuteronomy therefore forms a basis of Old Testament theology. It revolves around it. It's like the engine room, Old Testament theology of his stories, of its prophecies. It defines who a prophet is, defines who a teacher is, defines what idol worship is. It's like a book of definitions through explanation, like a teaching note. When you find this book of the law, that's Deuteronomy. When the psalmist says the book of the law, that's Deuteronomy, because it assumes and. It paraphrases and puts together books before it. When the Psalmist, for example, Psalm 103, says, Lord is merciful, gracious, slow to anger, is going to journey. Deuteronomy. Therefore.
16: And if there's anything that should address. We should address our minds to the fact that when Jesus was tempted, all the three texts, all the three were Deuteronomy. So that leads us to say this quickly. A real Christocentric emnotic and explanation never ignores the original context of the Old Testament. What it does, it finds the link, the connection. It recognizes that all portions of the Bible, when they are rightly understood in the original ancient context, play a role in the formation of the overall story of the Bible. Bible. It eventually directs us to Jesus, but it doesn't attempt to bring Jesus into every text. We must first of all understand what is being said. Don't try to make it what should have been said. I think that's really how a lot of Christocentric applications. Like what should have been said?
17: No, it's what is being said. Like I said last week, we kind of feel that the audience is so daft and dumb, you know, that we understand more what they understood. So we must therefore not include in a material what is not there. We mustn't walk from the answer to the question. We must first of all deal with the question, context of what we find in the books of Scripture. So we said we must preach the Old Testament narratives. The congregation must know the Old Testament stories. I shared a video with my friends yesterday and it looked funny, but it wasn't really funny. There was like a competition. It was a video, you know, someone sent it to me. No, no, it was one of these reels, but it was a church reel. So I knew the church had preached for them.