1: So I now saw that they did. Now, this is not to put down the church, just to also see the total picture of how we treat scriptures. And they're church workers, so they were doing this. They had a role. So you. If they mention a book of the Bible, you put Old and New Testament. You now you know that game. And I was so surprised. They were a long queue. They failed. How would anybody even miss it? That's for me. Nobody should fail. It's a Bible you carry every day now. And it's even written there. Old and New Testament for you. How did you not know? They said, Ezra, somebody went to New Testament. He said, Titus went to Old Testament. I said, is this a skit? So you can imagine, you don't even know the books of the Bible. Where's Lamentations?
2: You went to New Testament. How. Now let's go to Old Testament stories. Someone say, is that in the Bible? Because the only story you are aware of in the New Testament is four gospels and it's so short, even that one. If you ask Jesus all the time, Jesus spoke to who he spoke to Pilate in the Bible. It's like a rema. No, we must preach Old Testament narratives. And what are we doing that for? We're seeing how God works. How he works. It's his story more than their story. I thought we have said that, right? It's his story more than their story. The genealogies also are cool. By the time you look at the connection, they were made connection from this to that genealogy. We find that the incarnation was somewhat predictable from the genealogy because you had, you know, God's interventions like that.
3: Of course, procreation, the essence of. We said that from Genesis 3:15, the seed of the woman, the seed of the serpent already shows you that genealogy is going to be important. How people were born and named after God's purpose shows you genealogy. You see how God is faithful to what he said. By the time you trace it all to Jesus being of the tribe of Judah, it shows you that essence of genealogy. The Psalms. I've said that the Psalms establish something. They establish the Place of our actions and reactions to present day events. And the Psalms have lamentation. The Psalms have a cry for justice, a call for vengeance. You know, and we have said it before, that the call for vengeance was not for individual personal injuries, even though individuals were involved. It was more of God's corporate work in the earth.
4: Must preach from the Psalms. Don't forget that Jesus did it a lot. Luke 24:44, the law of Moses the prophet, and the Psalms concerning me. We must preach from Job, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Songs of Solomon to just where you now have. The writers talk about the world. You know, some people assume that the world is so evil, it's a theology in itself. But the writer of Proverbs doesn't think so. The writer of Ecclesiastes talks about seeing life's events. What he calls vanity is not the earth, it's the activities of men without the fear of God. So he views the activities of the earth. Proverbs does the same. Songs of Solomon also does the same. And someone told me, he said, is the Song of Solomon about Jesus? I said, there's no Jesus there.
5: Even though we sing his banner over us, his love, we put all those things in there. It's basically about relationships. And like Paul would say, whatever things are pure, think on these things. It's as right there in the Bible. If you, in fact one of the reformers actually asked you to be excluded from the Bible, that no, this cannot be inspired. Why is it not inspired? Because he talks about sex as rays of the devil, talks about the human physiology, anatomy, talks about love life. It has to be evil. Why? You know, it's like denying the creator what he has created. He created emotions, right? He created nature. Songs of Solomon is not about Jesus and the church. How which church? So you mean somebody was inspired to write about that?
6: Yes, because as we are going to see in the second session, creation is all inclusive. The Songs of Solomon gives us that idea. We must preach from it. I must admit, I have not. So I have not. I make references to it, I explain it once in a while, but maybe one of these days we do a series on it. And don't expect me to start talking about this is the cross of Jesus. This is the, this is about speaking in tongues. We just see what is there and you should like it. The prophets also will show you how God builds the congregation. I told you the prophets were not predicting a distant future as much as they were revealing God's plans to their audiences. Prophesying wasn't Revealing something in the future.
7: Obviously it's not about a football game or who's going to be next president. It was more about disclosing God's plan, of course. The four Gospels. The four Gospels shows us. If you ask me to give you a simplistic, which I really don't admire, but let me just give you a simplistic way to read the four Gospels. I'll say the four Gospels shows you how scriptures are fulfilled. How scriptures are fulfilled. Why do you think the average apostle didn't mind to die? Because he knew that dying for the sake of the Gospel is fulfilling scriptures and he knew they were going to be raised from the dead. Fulfilling Scriptures before Gospels Luke 24:44 all things must be fulfilled. Field we preach the Epistles too, teach from there. Which shows us the fulfillment of scriptures by Jesus and what the cross has done and the resurrection.
8: A crucial event. Last week we looked at the John 3:16 moments and what's the importance of that moment? Human history, of course. The most important, the book of Revelation 2, which has also been used for a future event. It's so funny that you think that the audience felt they were talking about 2,000 years. I think it's a challenge that I am inautic. And this has been reinforced by the Rapture theory. The now when I talk about people believe. I don't believe in the rapture theology. I don't believe in rapture. It's just what I was saying to someone yesterday evening. I said, if you know the concept of God returning in the Old Testament is when the nation of Israel is on exile for disobedience. It has never been a oh, you guys have done so well. No, it's always return of God.
9: God is always what follows. His absence, his silence, then repentance, then he returns. Meanwhile, his appearance is redemptive in nature or reviews his plan. So the concept of Jesus returning to take away the church is not found in the Old Testament. It's not within their theology at all. What we have in the Epistles is that Jesus is the head of the church, a part and parcel of the church. The concept in Christ Jesus should have deadened our Jesus returning for the church concept. But you know, if something is fixated and has been there for years, it will definitely constitute a bigger problem. Book of Revelation, first of all is for the first century church. I think that is the first thing we need to see. It wasn't written to the church in Nigeria. The seven clear churches in Asia who had seven different issues.
10: But had a common devil to deal with, a system of government, an opposition to the gospel, and definitely something Jesus had said about the temple that was now being fulfilled. It's been said, historically speaking, that by the time the book of Revelation was written that the temple had been gone. So the new heavens and new earth that they saw was that God was going to build a temple. You know. So again, the thing again is not to fall into the problem of reductionism that. Okay, just for that time, that you now create another challenge. The Bible works with themes and motifs, which means that is the Book of Revelation applicable to us today? Yes. Where we would have the concept of the beast, the antichrist. There's no Antichrist there, sorry.
11: The beasts, the dragons, you know, and all of them are there and they are still for today's world. So I will say this to us before the second session, that we should see Scriptures as it's happening. It will happen. An ongoing work of God being unveiled to us. So it takes the whole Bible to raise a complete Christian. So we said, for example, the concept of the Spirit, that the work of the Spirit is all through the Old Testament. It's just that we are usually not familiar with the grammar, with the kind of grammar used by the authors. Last time out we said Genesis was 2, Genesis 2, 7, Genesis 3, 8, Genesis 6, 3 Genesis 8, 21, on and on like that. The work of the Spirit pervades the old Testament.
12: Hebrews 11:3 already shows us the things that were seen were not made of things which do appear. Exodus 14:21 the wind that split the Red Sea or the sea of reeds is the Spirit. Exodus 15:8, Exodus 31:3 of the Tabernacle. Numbers 24:2 upon the prophets, Judges 6 and 34, the priests also second chronicles 24:20, the visions of many. Ezekiel 11:24 upon the life of David as a king for Samuel 16:30, David knew the importance. Take not your Holy Spirit from me. Psalm 51, verse 11 will ask the Spirit to lead him. Psalm 143, verse 10. So leading of the Spirit is right there. Isaiah 32 and 15 so the work of the Spirit is in the entire Old Testament. So the New Testament writers theology about the Spirit is taken from the Old Testament is not an innovation of ease whatsoever.
13: Luke 9:54 that leads us to something. And then we'll get to very brief today. Luke 9:54. They said, lord, will you that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them, even as Elijah did. Now I think first thing we should realize is for the disciples to know they can command from heaven is not the heaven we are thinking about now in our modern world. Now we've said that the word as Elijah did is unlikely because most early texts of scriptures called the manuscripts do not include that at all. So what did the translators do? They used the translators license by looking for what could have prompted the statement. It's not original, but it's not contradictory because of the truth. Elijah did call down fire.
14: So they weren't saying something that, I mean the translators were not including something that was extra biblical or will contradict scriptures whatsoever. So they were clear. In 1st Kings chapter, 2nd Kings 1, verse 10 to 12 there was a calling down of fire. Truly. And that could have been a reference to point. So was Jesus's rebuke, you know, not the spirit that you are of meant to. Now that's where we can now twist it that Elijah had demons or an evil spirit. That's tough, very tough to say. Knowing not the spirit that you are of could not mean that people will not be destroyed. That's not what he's saying. Because Jesus will eventually talk about that. He that believes and is baptized shall be saved. He that believes not shall be damned. In John 3:16 shall not perish.
15: And he says, repent, lest you perish. Jesus used perishing. So why they say, know ye not the Spirit, that you are off for the Son of man is not come to destroy men's life, but to saved. True. But will men's lives be destroyed because the Son of man came? Sure. Because when you do not believe, you perish. So this is not a statement that excludes God's judgment in our reading of Scriptures. Rather is a statement that refers to what is going on. Now of course the Samaritans were invited you and he plainly just infers that hey, this is not why I'm doing this, okay? This is not why. Because Jesus will talk later about people you know getting to trouble. There's destruction. He said it.
16: But knowing not the Spirit that you are of is not in any way to say that people will not be judged at all. If you preach to a non believer and someone who is recalcitrant, obstinate and refuses to believe and even insults the Gospel, you have the license to say you will be destroyed. Is that clear? Because that's the scripture. Trying not to use the scriptures in his words is doing disservice to it altogether. Look at Luke again. 10, Verse 17. The 70 returned again with joy saying, lord, even the demons are subject to Us through your name. And he said to them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Now, the last time out we saw that the word here, lightning. In Luke 17:24.