1: So the law of Moses is the actual canon because God said to Joshua, this book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. That's canon. The canonization was done by Yahweh himself. Others were witnesses and interpreters up till Paul. This is what I'm saying here. And was there miracles after? Of course. So that argument is flawed to say, well, every time the Scriptures are complete, there's no need for miracles, as though they are to replace each other. No, that's a faulty argument. So the canonizer of scriptures starts with the Old Testament, Genesis to Malachi, and much more technically, the first five books, the law. And Jesus said, Moses wrote of me, John 5, verse 46 and 47. So that argument of closure of canon doesn't even make sense. I have something else that I put out here. Let me just see it.
2: I think it's in one of books too. Yep, let me read out. I said here. Now let's be clear that what was Paul dealing with in First Corinthians 12 to 14? And what was not the issue? Paul definitely was not talking about whether the gates will cease or not. That was not what was on his mind when he was talking to Corinth. Rather, he was talking to Corinth on the use of gifts. Paul therefore cannot be used to teach cessation of gifts because he never intended it in any of his letters. So in basic emuniotics on Bible interpretation, what is in the mind of the author is primary. Nothing should be imposed on it. While it is true that we should discuss the concept of the functionality of the gifts, we mustn't impose our thinking arguments today on Paul's arguments.
3: Paul is in no way writing anything about gifts not working anymore. That's primary. First Corinthians 13 also has nothing to do with the gifts of the spirit will cease. Some have even imposed it on when Jesus comes who need gifts anymore. There's nothing like that in the text. These are imposed meanings. Paul's concept of face to face is Old Testament. Paul's concept of when the perfect shall come is Old Testament. And we have done some explanation more to come by God's grace on that text. It doesn't in any way imply Paul is saying there's so many times somebody is going to seize. So there are two camps to it. Some will say it will seize when the scriptures are put together, when Paul has nothing like that in mind. Others will say to come when Jesus returns. The Maranatha period.
4: There's nothing like that in scripture. Not at all. If the Bible says something is going to cease at all in Revelation, it says the curse the sea. He didn't say gifts will cease. That was not included at all. If anything at all, man is restored to his supernatural identity fully. So the concept of give seizing just won't make sense. Is that okay? So that argument is flawed. That God just uses it to authenticate his. Now that the Scriptures are complete, there's no need for that. It's a flawed argument. It makes no sense, it is illogical, it's unscriptural. And unfortunately, those who make these arguments tout solar scriptural and they defy the scriptures more than any other person on this subject at least. So secondly, others will say, well, I remember, you know, this is why it's very dangerous to. Even in arguments.
5: There was one guy, we're having these arguments somewhere. I already know your intention. I won't argue with you. Because see, in debates and conversations, spirits can easily be influenced. I'll be influential. Sorry. Paul calls doctrine spiritual. I've seen people that they think they're arguing and do this Twitter thing and Facebook, they're arguing. I used to, in fact, in my earlier days on Facebook, I will engage people for hours. You know, it's all came to nothing. So for hours, if I still have them, just engage them. And then you talk about tithe, salvation, prosperity, healing, miracles. Just engage, engage. Hours people write. Right, right. You know, so. So, you know, when we're gay, things like that. And I tell them that you know, you think you're arguing, but don't forget the other person has spoken words into your mind and naturally it will grow.
6: Then you start thinking. Now this particular person, I naturally, somehow I won the debate. I've told you this before, I got the debate. But he had, he now said something that, I mean to say I wasn't unsettled, would be a lie. And he said that the reason for the miraculous, why God intensifies the miraculous is because of unbelief. Now that is a side of the truth. Because where we find the greatest of miraculous was in the Exodus and what a generation. The second leg to that would be in the Synoptic. And then the four gospels, including John. Again it looks like they are similar because Jesus used the same unifier for them. Moses, because of the hardness of your heart. So when he said that, of course the Scriptures, boom, boom, boom.
7: But because he had something he was arguing against, that statement was flawed. The statement made no sense. It's about God trying to turn the heart of the disobedient back to him, that the reason for the miraculous was disobedience. Now there's another argument along that line I'm just going to talk about. They said, well, there are three times in Scripture that God did prominent miracles. Moses and Joshua, and both of them were 1400 years before Christ. And the miraculous here was about for 65 years. Then you talk about Elijah and Elisha, where you have about 800 years before Christ and about 65 years too between both of them. And that the reason why when John came on the scene, John also did no miracles.
8: Unfortunately, some of these people blindside the fact that those who actually started talking about the gifts of the Spirit as Satan were the Pharisees and the scribes. That's why they said that Jesus was actually using Beelzebub. They couldn't lay hands on the fact that God was still doing what he was doing through Jesus. But let's see that later. Now, this is very funny to say that God was only doing miracles because Israel was rebellious. Look at Psalm 74. And verse 9 to 11. We see not our signs. There is no more any prophet. Neither is there any among us that knows. How long, O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? Shall the enemy blaspheme thy name forever? Now look at verse 11. Why withdraw your hand, even your right hand, Pluck it out of your bosom.
9: For God is my King of old walking salvation in the midst of the earth. Psalm 74. Now look at Micah 3. They actually said the reason for miracles season was because they were in unbelief. Are you following this? That's what they said. Micah3, 5, 9 and thus saith the Lord concern the prophets that make my people err, that bite with their teeth and cry peace. And he that puts not into their mouths, they even prepare war against him. Therefore night shall be unto you that you shall not have a vision. It shall be dark unto you shall not divine. The sun shall go down over the prophets, and the day shall be dark over them. Then shall the seers be ashamed the diviners confounded. Yea, it shall all cover their lips, for there is no answer of God.
10: But truly I am full of power, by the Spirit of the Lord, and of judgment of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression and to Israel his sin. Hear this, I pray you. Heads of the house of Jacob and Prince of the house of Israel abhor judgment and pervert all iniquity. So you can see that rather the lack of science is a proof of what? Rebellion. They didn't see it like that. Israel didn't say, oh, God is doing signs because we are rebellious. It's the other way around. He's not doing signs because we are rebellious. In Mark 6, why could Jesus do no mighty work because of their unbelief. Mark 6. 4. A prophet is not without honor, except in his own country and among his own people and his own house.
11: And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk and healed them. So that argument is flawed. God wasn't doing miracles because the people were disobedient. Rather, he said he wasn't doing miracles because they were disobedient. Not that he was doing miracles because you are disappointed, obedient. Rather, they said, we have lost the hand of God because we have been in unbelief. Is that making sense? So miracles are not meant to show that people are perverse. Not at all. Look at Jeremiah 32. One of the things also giving Bible evidence is the codified silence. The fact that something wasn't said doesn't mean there's an absence of it. Jeremiah 32, verse 20 and 21. I'll start from 19.
12: Great in counsel, and mighty work in your hands your eyes, and open all the ways of the sons of men to give everyone according to his ways and according to the fruit of his doings. Wilt thou set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, even until when this day and Israel, and among other men, and hast made thee a name, as at when this day has brought forth thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt, with signs and wonders, with a strong hand, with a stretched out arm, and with great terror. So he's saying here that, hey, what God did in Egypt is still being today. This is Jeremiah. We read Micah, so it's totally incorrect. Joel also prophesied Joel 2:28:31 to say that. So let's now look at the miraculous and the supernatural in the history of the Bible.
13: Let's run through it. Very well. Genesis 1:3. Supernatural. Huh? I'm asking. Okay. Genesis 5:24 they're taking the rule of Enoch. Supernatural. Okay. Genesis 6, verse 9 to Genesis 8:19, the flood of Noah. The ark, the rescue. Supernatural good. Genesis 11, verse 1 to 9. The confounding of the human language in Tao Baba. Supernatural good. Genesis 12, verse 1 to 3 the call of Abraham. Supernatural Yep. Genesis 12 the plague in the house of Pharaoh. Verse 17. Supernatural. Genesis 15 Abraham falls into a trance. 1 To 3 the world killed him. Then verse 12 to 21 Abraham's trans. Visions. Supernatural. Huh. Genesis 16:7 the angel of the Lord appeared to agar. Supernatural. Genesis 17, verse 1 through 30. 27 Sorry. The Lord appearing to Abraham and having conversation with him. Yep. Supernatural.
14: Genesis 18, verse 1 to 5 the angels appearing to Abraham and eating with him. Supernatural huh? Yep. Genesis 19 the Rescue of Lot Sodom and causing the men of Sodom not to see. Supernatural. Genesis 19:23-25 the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. Supernatural Yep. Genesis 19 verse 26 Lot's wife turned to a pillar of salt. Supernatural Yep. Genesis 20 Abimelech seen in a vision dream that he should not touch Sarah, the wife of Abraham. Verse 3 to 18. Supernatural Yep. Genesis 21 the conception of Isaac. Supernatural Huh. Genesis 21:8, 21 Agar rescued with her son Ishmael. Supernatural Yep. Genesis 22 the Lord preventing, stopping Abraham from. From sacrificing Isaac. Supernatural yep. Genesis 24 how Eleazar was led to meet Rebecca. Supernatural. I'm asking. Good. Genesis 25:23 How Rebecca knew the destiny, or let's say the life, the future of our two sons in the womb.