1: For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether Jews or Gentiles. Bond of free were made to bring the one Spirit. So did Paul ever say that the slave, the servant, should deny him being the servant? No, it doesn't preach that because it speaks about if you're a servant. First Corinthians 7, 21 and 2022, you know, abide in your calling in 20 in 1 Corinthians 10 and 32, giving no offense neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church of God. First Corinthians 12:1, 12:2. You are Gentiles carried about Gentiles. So in Galatians 3 and 28, there is neither Jew nor Gentile born nor free, neither male nor female, for you are all one in Christ. So is Paul in any way denying nationalities?
2: If that is so, if it means you are no longer a Jew, you are a new creation, it therefore also means you are no longer a male. How does that sound? They rise to husbands. No, he's simply talking about a union that has no discrimination. So New Creation means no discrimination. Would that transform our culture? Yes, because eventually we have to assume a singular culture of the spirit walking in the spirit, walking in love, walking in the word. But there is no denial of nationalities, not by poor. I said that because we just finished Nation's Corp. So before you start feeling bad that oh, I supported Nigeria, I should not have supported anybody because I'm a New Creation. You should have also not gotten married since you are marrying New Creation. Male, female. There's no male female. We are both what female males.
3: You know or well, you don't go to work anymore and say, why I'm no longer a servant, I am free. Well, they just ask the HR to send you an email and wish you well in New Creation. So that's not what he's saying. One truth must never be found to contradict the other one. So it's about all understanding what he's saying. New Creation means where Africans, we have Europeans, we sit at the same table and there's no discrimination. The joy of it is that we are actually Africans sitting with Europeans, not that were never Africans. The joy of it is that there is no such discrimination between male and female. Not that male and female don't exist. I know some question will arise shortly in New Creation, our physical bodies. Would we have physical bodies, male and female?
4: Before you answer that, the mind of the questionnaire is saying we are going to marry and have children. Work all that detail out. But let's get the first things first. So, which means New Creation points us back to Eden, God's ideal, as it were. And Genesis 1. So Christian community, New Creation. We're no longer enemies. We're now fellow citizens of the saints and of the house of household of God. Ephesians 2, 18, 19. We have access by one spirit unto the Father. If that is so, New Creation therefore means you and I will see the earth differently. The earth belongs to Yahweh, God. It's his house. New Creation thinking, I repeat myself, the resurrection of Jesus, which takes its authority from that of Jonah is a unifier. Maybe I should mention this. Jonah took the gospel of repentance to Nineveh.
5: Nineveh is a Gentile nation. So there's a unifier in Jonah's republic. Resurrection, or let's say being raised from the dead. And Jesus also calls all nations to worship fellowship in him in his resurrection. Luke 24:47. So does new creation affect the universe? Sure. Romans 8. We read that earlier. New heavens, new earth. Mark 13. Jesus spoke about sorrows of the earth nation shall rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. And there shall be earthquakes in diverse places, and there shall be famines and troubles. They are the beginnings of sorrows. Mark 13 and 8 First Thessalonians 5 and verse 3 Were there the last time. When they shall see peace and safety, then sudden instruction come upon them as travail upon a woman that has child with child, and they shall not escape. So the earth, right, is a beneficiary of the redemptive work of Jesus.
6: So let's look at Genesis 1 as the introduction summary project plan of God for the earth. Genesis one is not man now fell No, I told Genesis one is corporate. Genesis two is both corporate and individual. Genesis three is individual, but it becomes archetypal because this is how we sin. This is what happens. So sin. Someone said someone yesterday and I said this is wrong. He said sin does not affect God, that sin affects us. I agree sin doesn't affect God because he's God. But sin affects God to the degree that affects us because he has no plan B. He's using man in the earth. That's why Genesis 6, I read that to you on Wednesday. Genesis 6 and verse 12 he says, the earth was corrupt before God and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth.
7: Behold, it was corrupted. All flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. That is God's plan upon the earth. So sin affects God's plan. God has decided to allow man to be his partner. So whatever happens to man happens to God. So true, God saved us because we're going to wallow in sin and all that. But in saving man, God also renewed his own plan. So it both affects man and it also affects the so I Therefore agree with E.W. Kenyon, who said that sin affected the divine plan, sin affected heaven. If it does, then our sin is not about dying and going to hell, or our sin is not about forbidden sin and losing salvation. It's about what it does to God's plan in the earth. So we have therefore a background of new creation.
8: Genesis 1, God has an original plan for the earth. Genesis 2, 1, 3, his resting place, man. Genesis 1:26 to 28 is the agency to have that happen. So let mention this quickly. So every generation in Scripture is working towards new creation. Every generation from Egypt to the exile to the fourth Gospels, even to the Gentile world in the Epistles. And that is the concept of the kingdom of God. Like someone rightly said, kingdom of God should rather be the rule and reign Kingship of God Kingdom can refer to a place a lot, but kingship refers to the person. How much of God's influence are in the earth? Ask of me and I'll give you the ething for your inheritance. The the uttermost part of the earth for your possession.
9: Psalm 2:from verse 7 to 9 so when the writers of the four Gospels kept saying, the kingdom is coming, the kingdom is at hand. What they are saying is new creation is approaching. New creation is where we are. New creation is what we have received. New creation is still our goal. Where we are heading for. This therefore will put in proper perspective the concept of eternal life. I've done that study with us. Eternal life simply means the reign of Christ in the earth. We receive a new birth. But eternal life also is more corporate than is individual eternal life derailed to us together Jews and Gentiles town life relates to God's rule and reign in creation altogether.
10: In Galatians 1:4 Paul talks about the evil age of the World in Philippians 2:15 Crooked and perverse generation but he has asked us to shine as light. The answer is not to escape. The answer is to shine as light. When Jesus rose from the dead, the picture image of new creation was seen in his resurrection. First Corinthians 15:2023 he is called the first fruits from the De. So come Lord Jesus is not a return of Christ. I told you, return is an exile statement. We are far from you. We have returned. O Lord is an exile statement. But come Lord Jesus is an appearance request and a special appearance at that. Come Lord Jesus to call the parousia P A r O u S I h is a unique appearance of an existing partner, friend or person.
11: So the return of Christ is rather a prayer point of a backsliding people who have gone far away from God's plan. That's return of Christ. But the appearance of Christ is the expert expectation of everyone who has believed. So let's quickly run through this quick one. In Genesis we have heaven and earth created. Genesis 1:1 quick one. Genesis 1:16 the Son created Genesis 1:5 the ninth no night time is established. Genesis 1:10 the seas. Genesis 3: the seas are created. Then you look at Revelation 21:1 the heavens and earth are renewed. Revelation 21:23 the sun is no more. Revelation 22:5 no night. Revelation 21: Verse 1: no more seas. In Genesis 3:14 to 17 a curse comes into the world. Repeated again in Genesis 5:29 but Revelation 22 verse 3 no more curse. Revelation sorry Genesis 2:19, death entered.
12: 2:16 To 17, death enters the world. Genesis 3:1 7, death entered. Genesis 3:15, 16. But Revelation 21, verse 4, new creation, death is no more. Genesis 3:24, man is cast out of the garden. Revelation 22, verse 14, humanity is restored back to the garden. And sorrow is gone. New creation comes. So new creation is the manifestation of God's glory in the earth is not just me receiving the life of spirit of God, it's about me, believers and then the world generally. So new creation here, new creation to be seen. New creation, what I have, new creation, what I share with others, new creation, what we will see. So Paul's concept of new humanity. Like I said, usually the conundrum is, how is God going to do this? Is he going to, first of all, take us all out, then we'll come back?
13: Theory has been no scripture. Is he going to destroy the whole earth with fire? No. Work out the fine details. Like I said, the issue is how it's not what. There's definitely a renewal plan for the earth that God walks through in his son Jesus. So we'll pause here for now. Y' all clear?
14: Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/