1: In fact, it was supposed to be face to face and it was not from the occasion of dying. Look at Jeremy 30. For this commandment which I Command you, verse 11 is not. Is. Is not hidden from thee, that I say foul is not in heaven. That thou should say, who shall go up to heaven? Who shall go up for us to heaven to bring it unto to us? Who shall go up to heaven to bring it to us? They didn't assume heaven is where you go to when you die. That is why he said in verse 19 I call heaven and earth to record heaven and earth. The psalmist will say, who is like unto you in heaven? He mentions different beings in heaven. So when Moses went to get the law, or when he.
2: Yeah, when he went to get the law, what was said about him? Did you know what I mean? So X verse I said to him, look at this, Exodus 20:4 and verse 19 there went up Moses and Aaron and Nadab and abihu and the 70 of the elders of Israel. And they saw the God of Israel. And there was under his feet, as it were a paperwork of a sapphire stone, as it were the body of heaven in his clearness. So these men, when they went up on the mountain of the Lord. It was said that they went to heaven. So the Old Testament audience did not think of heaven the way we do today. Heaven is never called the place of disembodied spirit or the place strictly for when people go to when they die.
3: We therefore must revisit our thinking of what heaven is. The New Testament writer does a play on those words. Look at 1 Corinthians 15 and Ephesians. That's Paul. First Corinthians 15, verse 40. Now they are celestial bodies and bodies terrestrial. The glory of the celestial is one, the glory of the terrestrial is another. The glory of the sun, the glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars. For one star differs from another. So is the resurrection of the dead. It's sown in corruption, it's raised incorruption, it's sown in disorder, it's raised in glory, it's sown in weakness, it's raised in power. It's so natural. Body. It's raised in spiritual body. Notice the word spiritual. Pneumaticos. P N E U M A T I K O S There's a natural body, there is a spiritual body. Pneumaticos.
4: Now this is not the first time you use pneumaticos. He had used it earlier. 1 Corinthians 2:15 and 2:13 talking about of the Spirit. So 1st Corinthians 2:15, 2:13. Comparing spiritual things with spiritual. Comparing spiritual things with spiritual. 1St Corinthians 2:16. The spiritual man judges all things, yet he is not the judge of no man. 1St Corinthians 3:1. I could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ. First Corinthians 9, Verse 11. If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing? You shall reap your carnal things. Again, pneumaticos of the Spirit. And can we say spirit, there is wind breath thou. First Corinthians 12:1. Now, concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I will not have you ignorant. First Corinthians 14:1 desire spiritual gifts. First Corinthians 14:12. Zealous of spiritual gifts. First Corinthians 14.
5: And verse 37. If anything comes up as a prophet or a spiritual. So the word spiritual means. Can we just say supernatural? Huh? Pay good attention though. Can we just say supernatural? This is New Testament writer. Now, First Corinthians 15. We read others earlier, so he has called that body supernatural. Right? Okay, now notice what he now says after the first man verse 45. Adam was made a living. So the last man Adam was in quicken spirit. Howbeit was not? Pay attention. First, which is spiritual, but that which is natural, afterward that which is spiritual. The first man is of the earthy. The second man is the Lord from heaven. So he has replaced the word spiritual with heaven. The earth, the earthy, the heavenly that are heavenly we are born. The image of the earthy we shall bear. The image of what, huh?
6: So what is he calling heavenly? Spiritual, which is the word Horanios. Spiritual and heavenly as synonymous terms in Ephesians chapter. Well, Ephesians 1. Spiritual blessings in heavenly places. Ephesians 1:20 own right hand in heavenly places. Ephesians 2:6. He says we are seated together. Now, how does that make sense to think that heaven is where you go to where you die? When he is telling us that today we are seated in heavenly places it at the size, no doubt, or in the heavenly world. Now, Ephesians 6. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in the heavenly places, which is actually the word high there. So the concept of heaven from the New Testament writer's perspective is not where disembodied spirits go to.
7: It simply means spiritual or supernatural. Now, we should now ask the question, does the earth have a supernatural world to it? Yes, that is what the Bible is describing. So reading about heaven is a description of the earth's space itself, but the supernatural context of it. So whilst heaven and earth can be distinguished, they can't be separated because they work together. They are contrast, no doubt, but they are contrasts that can only be distinguished in the same environment, in the same space. So now, if we don't clear this one, a lot of other cobwebs will come. We have to first of all clear it that now the question, okay, when people die, when believers die, where did they go to? What did. Where they go? Where they go to what? The first question, what is death?
8: Death will mean that their physical bodies will stop functioning. That's what you mean by that. Where were they? They were in Christ Jesus. Where would they remain? In Christ Jesus. Where? In heaven, Outside the earth. Heaven and earth are in the same place. So it becomes, except we want to assume a theology of a distant heaven that is outside the earth. You have to leave the earth where we are now, talking about the earth, as in the universal space, to go to heaven. That's not a biblical truth. Heaven and earth are spoken of distinguished qualities of what God has made heaven and earth. Now, this lends credence to what we're talking about, the concept of the rapture.
9: And I recall that I was saying this in the service, that there was a time some of us were, a preacher actually said this, that he's working on an equipment. I think what I Turner said. Turner said an equipment that can announce an information to the world at once, but somehow already have things like that anyway. And that the moment, now look at what the president said. The moment that is done, that Jesus will come back. So I now said that the person has an assumption. That assumption is that to God this earth is evil. So he wants to destroy this earth. But he practically just needs to tell everybody about Jesus. When they've all heard it, they will all go away. The other cannot be substantiated in Scripture. So one thinking of heaven leads to the other thinking, then to the other thinking.
10: And that is where the rapture theory also takes place, its roots. So when people talk about the idea of a new heaven and a new earth, which you see, Revelation 21 and 22, we must ask the question of new. Look at Isaiah 65, Verse 17. I will create new heaven and new earth, and the former shall not be remembered nor come to mind. Now, the word create is bara, and bara is not from ex nihilo. That is nothing was existing. I think we have done that study right. Bara will mean to put something in use properly to make out of an existing thing. And the word new is more often to repair or renew than to start without anything at all. Isaiah 66:22, New heavens and a new earth I will make. Second Peter 3:13. We're going to see that one shortly.
11: And Revelation 21:1. Now in the. When you read this in Scripture, please pause. Let's look at this. Let's pause and think. When we talk about heaven and earth, or the earth, we think universally, scientifically, right, because of education, exposure, enlightenment, what we know. But that's not the biblical author's thinking. Biblical author's thinking of heaven and earth is not the universe. It always has a supernatural context, that is the natural and the supernatural. So they are not referring to the atmospheric heavens that we're talking about, even though they connote it in their definition. It's a supernatural world. So Eddie W. Kenyon said that the sin of Adam affected heaven. I struggle with that statement because I was. Because my head was. Heaven has to be where God is.
12: Well, the truth of the Matter is that God was right there in Eden when man sinned, that was heavenly. I struggled with that because I felt that obviously that means that man was in heaven. The Garden of Eden is heaven. Or better say heavenly, supernatural. So now, of course, when we read cease is also chaos, right? Cease is chaos. So they are not describing the universe. So in Revelation 21. So Revelation 21, verse one, it says there is no longer C. There's no longer C. The C is referring to here. If you think universally, scientifically, and naturally, you miss the point. Revelation 13:1, I stood upon the sand of the sea and saw a beast rise up out of the sea. 7 Head, 10 ounce. Obviously this is not seaside. This is supernatural.
13: Revelation 17:1, The great oar that sits upon many waters, which is also the sea. So when it says there is no more sea, there, it is a supernatural world description. So our thinking of heaven and earth is not scientific, scriptural, wise. So what God Speaking about Isaiah 65, a new heaven and earth, what would it mean? We said the word new Shadash means to renew something. So we have Jeremiah 31:31, new covenant. Isaiah 62, 2, a new name. And you see that Revelation 2:17, Revelation 3:12, you also have a new song. Let's. Let's check Isaiah 62, verse 2, a new name. Isaiah 60, Isaiah 42:10, A new song. Ezekiel 11:19, Ezekiel 18:31, Ezekiel 36, verse 26, a new spirit, new covenant, new name, new song, new spirit.
14: You also see new song in Revelation 5:9, Revelation 14, verse 3, Revelation 5:9, Revelation 14,' verse 3. So you will see that God emphasizes newness. So to create means to put into use, to proper use, new means to renew. So in second Peter 3:13, We look to the promise for look for new heavens and the new earth wherein dwelleth righteousness. This cannot be physical. Wherefore beloved sin, you look for such things with diligence, that you may be found of him in peace, without spot and blameless. So what's the context again? Verse 10. The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise and the elements. Stoichio. Remember Stoichio. Okay, that's the heavenly forces supernatural shall melt with fervent heat. And the earth also.
15: And the works that ending shall be burned up, seeing that all these things will be dissolved, what manner of persons he says, ought you to be in all holy conversation of godliness? So it talks about the new heavens and new earth from the concept of behavior, how we act, our conduct. Verse 12. Looking for an incident to the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens, being on fire, shall be dissolved and the stoichiome elements shall be shall melt with fervent heat. So the heaven and earth here it says, will be replaced. So no doubt there will be a new heaven as a new earth. New heaven and new earth. Now this is not nature, it will affect nature, but this is way beyond nature. So everyone knows that there will be a new heaven and a new earth.