1: Second Timothy 3. And we'll go back to an old issue. Another elephant in the room. Verse 16. All Scriptures given by inspiration of God's prompting for doctrine, reproof, correction, stroke and righteousness. And we said inspiration there. Theonistos summarizes the events of the Old Testament which shows us a supernatural world context to the things were reading. Hebrew 11:3. By faith we understand that the walls were framed by the word of God, that the things that were seen were made of things, were not made of things which do appear. So we have a duty to interpret the Bible text grammatically. Historically. Grammatically, historically, and of course culturally. Then in the supernatural world context, we must. Last week I did. I think I mentioned that we sometimes assume we know what God was telling an audience more than they did. No.
2: I would therefore assert what brother Hagin will say. And I think it's one of the safest things that he said in reading the Old Testament. That is in progressive revelation. We have to get that clear. It's a progressive revelation and we definitely, whatever the information he gave them could not have been. You can't understand it, the generation that will understand it. No, we are safer to say there was information he did not give them. It's arrogant to assume that we have more insight into what he said to them. So a key part is the fact that they were written not to us or written for us. Romans 15:4 and 1 Corinthians 10:11, but not to us. For example, the book of Revelation is a letter written to seven churches, literal churches, and it had to do with what was happening in their world.
3: There is no post dated letter in the Old Testament. Okay, this is about the future. No, it's about now. Now, if at all it relates to the future, it's an immediate future. So where we make the connection must be clear to us. How significant is this in today's world? Is a better way to interpret it than it was not. For their world is for ours. Maybe I should now mention this aspect. I think I said it earlier. Look at something Paul does in 2nd Corinthians 6:16, where he talks about 2 Corinthians 6:16. Before we go there, let me just clarify this one first. So if there's a future to the things said in the Old Testament, it is an immediate future. It's like all saying, well, later in the year we're going to do this, next year we're going to do this.
4: And someone now reads it 20 years after and says we're talking about 20 years after. That's all we're talking about. We're talking about this year. But because we use a future tense doesn't mean a distant future. It's an immediate future tense with which it is used. Also, in the earlier session, we said that there is a wider audience. The theology is the same, but the communication and the application has changed. I think that's something we need to realize that the New Testament writers are making applications. That is, that should be very vital in the way we read. Look at Leviticus 26 and 12. Leviticus 20. I go to 2nd Corinthians 6. Who wrote Leviticus 26 or who was it about? Moses.
5: Now Moses is talking to the Jewish nation, and he says in verse 12, I will set my tabernacle among you, and my soul shall not abhor you. I will walk among you and will be your God, and you shall be my people. So let's think not like a New Testament audience. Who was this written to? Israel. Right. What was it about the land God was taking them to? Right. Was it about the physical land? The physical land was going to be a witch window for his tabernacle with them, supernaturally speaking. That is the interpretation. That is the interpretation. He's taking them to a land, the promised land. And in that promised land, a tabernacle will be built. The tabernacle is not necessarily the building they will put up, but God's presence amongst them. So that is the interpretation. And we'll see it happen.
6: We see the Exodus. We see that. That's the interpretation. Now look at what Paul has done in Second Corinthians, chapter 6. This is a Gentile nation, right? That the land in Leviticus 26 is not the land where they are. Right. And they are not the Exodus audience. But look at what Paul says in 16. I will dwell in them and walk in them. I will be their God and they shall be my people. So Paul is taking a line from this text about the Israelites living in a land and having a benefit of God's presence. He now applied it to Gentile Christians Corinthians, who believed in Jesus. So we said that the resurrection of Jesus is also a unifier, okay? So he says, and it said, stay away from idols. Why? Because they also had their own temples. Every nation has what they worshiped.
7: So he's saying to them, the look, this is now applicable to us because this is about the Jews. But it's now applicable to us because it is now fulfilled in us. So what we are reading in the epistles is a fulfillment or Better still an application. It doesn't mean that what he was talking to them about, right. Is a future event. No, it's not a future event what he was saying to them. They understood it and it happened. But it is significant for us and applicable today to us in Christ Jesus. So let's go after a significant aspect of this and that is the use of the phrase heaven. Now the writer of Hebrews, You see him use the word heaven and heavenly. Heaven and heavenly. Okay, maybe Hebrews one, three, right hand of the majesty.
8: Hebrews 4 and 14, we have a great high priest that is passed into the heavens. Hebrews 4:14, pay attention here. Now the problem with this, we also have with this text is that the writer of Hebrews is reading the Old Testament to assumably a Jewish believing audience. What they have before them is the Old Testament. Now by saying the high priest. High priest is an Old Testament language for the fellow who was chosen above the other priests from the type of Levi, who would take offerings and gifts into the holiest of all. Is that very clear? That is easy. By the time you see that in Exodus and Leviticus and numbers and Deuteronomy you see that's the high priest office. So he has now called Jesus the high priest.
9: So if Jesus is the high priest, please, this is very, I want to make it this simple, very simple. If Jesus is that high priest, it means that we will need to read by calling Jesus an high priest. We'll have to go through the historical, grammatical, cultural and theological meaning, office and function of the high priest of the Old Testament. So he says 4, 14, pass into the heavens. 6, 19, It says entered into within the veil. That's a temple language. Without the foreigner is for us. Enter. Jesus made an high priest. So now did the high priest used to go behind the veil? Old Testament. Yes. So Hebrews 8 we have Sutton High Priest, verse 1, which is set on the right hand of majesty in the heavens. Okay.
10: A minister of sanctuary, of the true tabernacle, which the Lord preached and not man. Then Hebrews 9 should naturally have helped us understand it. But look at this. The first covenant had ordinances of divine service and a worldly sanctuary. For there was a tabernacle made first, wherein was candlestick, the table, the shewbread, which is called sanctuary. And after the second veil, tabernacle, which is called the holiest of all, which had the golden censer, the hack of the covenant of a little Rama with gold, wearing a golden pot that had manna and the earth that bordered and the tables of the covenant over it, the cherubims of glory, shadowing the mercy, seat of which we cannot speak. Particularly now. When these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God.
11: But into the second went the high priest alone, once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the errors of the people, the Holy Ghost is signifying that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. So we have two. What is it called? Pay attention, please. The tabernacle was called Heaven and Earth. So the first tabernacle had a second tabernacle. That's what he's saying is the second one that the high priest goes into, which was a figure for the time being present, which he offered gifts of sacrifice which could not make him that did perfect according to conscience, who stood only meats and drinks and diverse bushes and ordinances of them.
12: But Christ being common high priest of good things to come by greater and more powerful tabernacle, not made with hands, at least, he said, not in this building. So he talks about heaven and earth in that same first and second tabernacle. So every time he said, Jesus went behind the veil. Behind the veil is called heaven. Passed into the heaven. That is, every time the high priest, which is once a year, goes behind the veil, he said to go to where? Heaven. This is a way to read it from the Old Testament. He said to from heaven. Now, When Moses went to get the law, what did the people say? They said they went to heaven.
13: So the heaven of the Bible, or let me put it like this, the heaven of the New Testament writer does not in any way differ from the heaven of the Old Testament writer. I submit that the heaven that we use today in largely many circles, is where the problem is. The writer of Hebrews was reading out the Old Testament to a Jewish audience, right? Who had now known about Jesus God, who became a man. And he said, tell them that, look, Jesus is the high priest. Now. Let us now find out, has he gone into heaven? Yes. To do what? To offer a sacrifice like the high priest. Was the high priest also going to heaven? Yes. So the high priest of the Old Testament equally took his offerings behind the veil. Jesus has also gone behind the veil. That's what he's saying.
14: So now we must make the connection. But the Old Testament high priest also went to heaven. So the question should now be, how do we interpret heaven? How is heaven properly interpreted? That should be where our attention should be. So let's go back to that big elephant in the room and you'll be called names. The reason being that people don't believe. Oh, let's put like this. People have believed things that might not be scriptural. There was a time that I think it was during E.W. Kenyon's time. There are two stories that if they found out that you believed in divine healing, right, they will excommunicate you from the church and anybody who is associated with you will be excommunicated from the church because you believed in divine healing. There was a time that was about speaking in tongues.
15: They will send you away for speaking in tongues. They will send anybody who is associated with you for speaking in tongues. So sometimes we might not even know what had happened before now, particularly age long traditional beliefs. If we are to explain heaven in the Bible with the way heaven is in the Bible, it might go against a lot of norms because we have a traditional thinking of heaven. One of them is a place for disembodied spirits or ghosts. A place above the clouds where people go to when they die, or a place where angels live. I mean, we pass through that kind of thinking, but the Bible doesn't think that way at all. Look at a Moses. A Moses, more often than not had interactions with God.