1: But angel was a description of anyone or any being on an errand, which at times was also used by God. So a key element is the word Elohim, where we have the word Elohim. And when we say Elohim today, we refer to God, one person. But the Bible doesn't refer to one person as God because the word Elohim simply means a spiritual being. When they are sent to do something, they are called Malak angel at times God himself, the supreme being called Yahweh is the one on the errand. We saw that in the Exodus where he said, I'll send my angel before you. Exodus 23:20 who will go before you? Right? And he said, my name is in him. Name is a short form of saying my person, my being. That's obviously a visible manifestation of God.
2: Furthermore, in Exodus 32 when they fell into idolatry and Moses interceded and God spoke to them and said, okay, I will send angel. Moses knew that is not the same person. Then he pleaded and said, please Lord, if your presence was not, go with us. Which means that there was a distinction in who was bringing the message. The New Testament writers let us know that there was a rock that followed them who was Christ. Paul In 1 Corinthians 10, verse 4 and 5, Jude tells us that the one who delivered them from Egypt led them out and also rescued them and destroyed their enemies. Those who did not believe was Jesus. So we are therefore faced with the challenge the Septuagint writers faced.
3: If you refer to Jesus as that messenger, you might fall into the bait of those who were already identifying him as an ordinary angel. So John will come out in John 1:18. We'll come to that shortly. There is no one has seen God at any time. So we have the challenge of the Elohim Agelos, sons of God, angels and the word Elohim. It's not as easy as it sounds to make that distinction. Remember, we came from who gave the law earlier on we had said Jesus did as that being okay, and in Exodus 20, for example. And I also try to make a distinction to people about the Ten Commandments or the Ten Words and the 612 laws. The 712 laws explain. They are like the exegesis, the application of the Ten Commandments. But in Exodus chapter 20 it says God.
4: And God spoke all these words saying, I am the Lord thy God. So no doubt the Ten Commandments were issued directly from God. In our book Two Kinds of Righteousness, Luke 20:16 or so we made it clear make that distinction. There is 10 words which form the basis of Christian worship today. And then we have the Syrian 12 explanations interpretations that come in progressive revelation. Some can be modified here and there and depending on the context that they are used. Jeremiah chapter 5. Look at how in the second instance it was described. Jeremiah chapter 5. Look at How Moses said it. He said in verse one, I speak to your ears this day that you may learn and Keep them and do them. The Lord our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.
5: The Lord made not his covenant with our fathers, but with us. Even to this day. All of you here alive this day. The Lord stalked with you face to face in the mount out of the midst of the fire. I stood between the Lord and you at that time to show you the word of the Lord. For you were afraid by reason of the fire and wept not up to the mount, saying, I am the Lord thy God. There is no doubt. This is Yahweh himself. So Jesus gave the law. Who gave the law? Moses. You are correct. Who gave the law? Jesus. God. Yahweh. You are correct. Who gave the law? Angels, you are still correct. It depends on the text and the context of what you are saying.
6: Now, some have argued that because the word Elohim is multifaceted, this might just be one of those beings. Absolutely no. Moses was very clear in that text that he stood between Yahweh and you. In Psalm 82, another of such very technical texts, God stands in the congregation of the mighty. He judges amongst the gods. Elohim stands in the congregation of Elohim. He judges amongst the Elohim. So therefore one of the phrases he is called is the God of gods. So more than one being is identified as God in Scripture. We therefore can say more than one kind of being is also identified as the angel of the Lord. We must make that distinction in Psalm 89, From verse 5 through to verse 10 is called the God of hosts. The host. Lord. God of hosts, the host. They are supernatural beings.
7: You have the assembly of the saints in 17, in 7. Sorry, we have. Who in the heavens can be compared? The sons of the mighty. So we had supernatural beings that were not human, that obviously were in the host of heaven. Heavenly beings. Jeremiah 32, 33. Sorry. And verse 2. And verse two I'll start from. This is the blessing wherewith Moses, the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death. He said the Lord came from Sinai and rose up from the Seine to him. He shined forth from Mount Paran. And he came with. Watch this one. 10,000 Of saints. Saints. There are supernatural beings. And his right hand went a few fairy love for them. Yea, he loved the people. All his saints are in thy hand. And they sat down at thy feet. Everyone shall receive of thy words.
8: Moses is showing us that there were many beings, right? But there was a supreme one. Are you following what we're saying here? So who gave the law? Angels. Who Gave the law. The angel of the Lord. Who is Yahweh? Who gave the law? Moses. Exodus 19, verse 10 to 11. The Lord said to Moses, go to the people and sanctify them today and tomorrow. And let them wash their clothes and be ready against the third day. For the third day the Lord will come down in the sight of all the people upon Mount Sinai, the Lord will come down. Look at Psalm 68. So obviously Jesus. Yahweh never acted alone. Is that clear? Neither did Moses. Psalm 68, Verse 17. The Chariots of God. 20,000, Even thousands of angels. Now, are you there? What did I say? The Lord is what amongst them?
9: Can you see it? Can you see that the Lord is. Psalm 68. 17. The Lord is amongst them. So there is a unique supernatural being who is the visible Yahweh, of course, in his humanity we call him Jesus, just like Joseph. Okay, Psalm 68. Let me read that from the Septuagint for you. Verse 17. He says, the chariots of God are 10,000 fold. Of course, the word thousand, let me explain to you. Is not today's hundred times ten. It just means that was the highest number. Just means a group of people, thousands of those flourishing. The Lord is amongst them in Sinai, in the holy place. So who gave the law will be correct to say. Jesus will be correct to say the angels. The Septuagint uses angels generally for those sons of God or the ones called Elohim.
10: So if you go back to Acts 7, so let's repeat something we've said here. That Jesus did not start existing in the womb of Mary. To try to remove him from the Old Testament is total injustice to your understanding and to your learning. So Acts 7, When, where sorry, Stephen is speaking and he says, this is he, verse 13, that was in the wilderness with the angel that speak to him in the Mount Sinai. So it mentions his spirit, unique servant. And this unique servant is the Lord Jesus. In Joshua John 1:18, No man had seen God at any time. The only begotten Son, which is the bosom of the Father, he has declared him. What he's saying is he said, no one had seen God. The way it sounds like, no one has seen God.
11: The only one who has seen God is Jesus. That interpretation creates a greater problem. It means that Jesus is not God, but no one had seen God. Right? He that seen me has seen the Father. It follows the same pattern. The only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he had declared him. Which means that the visible God Is Jesus in John 8:56. John 8:56. Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day. He saw it. He was glad. And he said, the day he's talking about is on the cross. Which cross is not cross? Apostle Whoever Abraham saw was Jesus. And that goes to the Genesis 16, 18, 22, 31, 3224 Jacob who did Jacob see? Jesus. Who did Abraham see? He saw my day. He's not saying Abraham rejoiced to see me down on the cross.
12: Abraham didn't have that kind of information. He saw it and he was glad. Then he now said to them, verse 58 Before Abraham was I am. Before Abraham was I am. So what was the challenge that the New Testament writers had that made the use of angels become, as it were, advantage? For example, look at John 1:1 John obviously by saying in the beginning was the Word was God, and the Word was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. Jehovah's witnesses have latched onto the lacuna here by the word Logos and claim that there is no way you can call God speaking, or his subject matter, as it were. So of course, in their dishonesty, they slanted the word to make a distinction between the Word and God there, and they said a God.
13: But the point is, John is not using the Old Testament alone by because I've said it to you before, there is definitely a challenge interpreting Daba word of the Lord as Logos. There's a lacuna somewhere, but there's none. It's because John is using what is called the Targums, T A R G U m by simple definition, a tagum, all right, simply means interpretation. Tagum means interpretation, and it is translations of Hebrew words into the Aramaic language. So the tagoms were translations that were used also by Jesus. So now the Targum, in explaining God, now equates him with his words or the Scriptures, the Torah, the written word. They use the word memra. So the tagums obviously were used by John, by Jesus.
14: For example, in Genesis 1:1 the Targums will say one of them from the beginning, with the wisdom and word of the Lord created and perfected the heavens and the earth. Another Targum will say, the word of the Lord said, let there be light. The Word of the Lord said, let there be light. And that word is Memra, not Daba. Genesis 2, 3. On the seventh day, the MEMRA of the Lord completed his work, which he had created, and there was Sabbath. So what John has done is to Pick on the word memra. We'll come up, come to it later on, where the word memra seems to sum up God as being consistent with what is written.
15: And then rather just like the word name is superimposed or let's say is adumbrated to that's not the word it means to stand in place of saying God name. So they now say the word of the Lord instead of using God said the word of the Lord. So membra is a tagum, an interpretation. Therefore, John is not using the Old Testament alone directly when he says the word of God, he's saying the self revealing God who does it through his words. So the tagom is seen in the tagum, the memra M E M R A is seen as what is walking, talking and relates. So John has identified that the Old Testament does have a visible Yahweh that is called the memra of the Lord. Jesus did not begin from Matthew. So the New Testament writers used translations like we do today, the Targums.
16: I must say there are variants of Targums in the Aramaic language and some of them will help us. For example, when Jesus said that if this cup will pass over me, not my will, it's from the Targum that will get what he was saying. He couldn't have said I don't want to be away, you know, I've explained that to us before, the concept of evil, you know. So the Targums helped, you know, in knowing how from the Hebrew things came to the Aramaic, which was, you know, largely also influential Jesus teaching ministry, then the Greek language. So in being able to be able to substantiate God's activities in the Old Testament, the word of the Lord meant and the word Daba of course, which is Hebrew, were equally used.
17: So the challenges with the New Testament writer is what their world had seen or the challenges they were having is in the worship of God. Look at Colossians 2:18. Who gave the law? If one asks you who gave the law, it's 38. Depend on what context you are using. Who gave the law? Naturally. Who gave the law by agency, supernatural? Who gave the law by inspiration? God, you know, we are all correct. Are you following what I'm saying here? So it depends on the context. That's why I said run away from the ease explanation or the is definitions. Pardon me, are you learning something? Look at Colossians 2:18. So Paul obviously and his own contemporaries, the apostles, were facing an impending challenge. In Colossians 2:18 he says Let no man beguile you in your reward in the voluntary humility and worshipping of angels.
18: The Greek says Trescia turned Angelon. Worshipping of angels. Well, this is obviously taken directly From Deuteronomy, chapter 4. Where nation of Israel were equally warned. They were equally warned about worship. Jeremiah chapter 4. I'm reading the Septuagint for you, and it says here, verse 15. Watch yourselves, because you did not see the image on the day the Lord spoke to you and Oreb, lest you act lawlessly and make yourselves a carved idol. Any image, likeness of male and female, likeness of any animal that is on the earth, likeness of any windfowl that flies under the heavens. Verse 18. Likeness of any reptile. Verse 19. Do not look up to the heavens and see the sun and moon and stars, or even any ornaments of the heavens. Host of heavens. All right, let's be less than this.