1: Let us pray. Father, in Jesus name. Your son, we thank you this morning for another time to fellowship around the written world. Thank you for the light you always bring our path as we study the subject Seated on High this morning. Thank you for advancing the course of our knowledge and our worship of you. And together we behold Jesus Christ your son, even as he sees us in him. In this study is glorified as we're edified, built up and with proper insights and equipped for the work of ministry for not just us, but for the sake of those who hear us every day in our different fellowships groups in the body of Christ. Amen. So it's Seated on High. It's been a while on the subject, so we'll pick it up this morning. Second Timothy, chapter three.
2: The the essence of the study is to see the. You know, when we do Bible study, we talk about the context of Scripture and it is good to situate. We have different contexts. We said we have the grammatical context of the Bible, we have the historical context of the Bible. You have to walk through everything. None of them is less significant. The cultural context. Usually people have to focus on something. I always say that Kenneth Hagin, though he's one of the most criticized people I know, used to say that I'm precise by experts. His combination of ministry is very unique where he combines what you can call the office of a prophet and that of a teacher in the sense of he advances the academic study of scripture at the same time, emphasizes the supernatural aspect of that same knowledge. It's quite a balance.
3: I'm not really a fan of using the word balance, but it's quite a balance that is tight and almost difficult to achieve. So usually you discover that when people want to study that broad based study might not be there for many. Where some would just stick to the historical context of Bible text, some will look at the cultural context of Bible text. Some would fix their minds on the grammatical context, you know and you know. Then others would just look at what you can call the intertextual context. Basically you're looking at how Genesis and Exodus relate and all that. But as a student of the Bible, you must bring in every context because it's not like it's a deep revelation you are exploring, as it were. You are just getting to see the text.
4: I remember one of us asked me a question, one of our leaders just a couple of was it two days ago and was asking about council of Heaven and Earth and he said, sir, was did Moses mean? He gave like a broad definition. And I said Let me see the text you are referring to. Because you must stick to the text. You don't label a text with another one very quickly, except there is a connection. So then looking at the historical context of Bible text and then before we arrive at theological context, then we now look at the application, how does it apply? And that's why we gave the different methods or the methods of studying Bible text. We said the first thing is that you must read the Bible as a singular text. Never forget that part.
5: And we said that the Bible words are not as English as they appear. And that's because it wasn't written to an English speaking audience. So that means it was written to your kind of audience. That's the second thing we said, find a grammatical structure, which we mentioned the concept of paragraphs. Now I remember yesterday I was talking to another pastor and we're relating with something about Hebrews one. And I mean, why I talk like this? I want you to be thinking, you know, and we're Talking about Hebrews 1. So somebody wrote a piece. It's a man I respect, a friend, as it were, comes for our meetings, a pastor in Nigeria here. So he wrote something about Hebrews 1. And I remember that Hebrews 1.
6: It was Reverend Christian quoted that first of all highlighted something, I'm sure it's late 99 or something where he mentioned that first case, God who has sometimes on diverse manners, he deferred with the King James and said that the opening case can be God, that they spoke for God, Hebrews 1:1, who in the last day spoken with us in his song Hebrews 1:2. And that submission today is very rock solid. I still kind of assert it strongly because of the structure. But this fellow now came up with something and he said, look that he went, he did more Greek classical studies than I did. So he now said that he looked at the normative cases and he said that the grammar, he now rearranges.
7: I said the grammar, that the point is that it's still God in the first one and the second one, you know. So I said, okay, I get your point. Because he just talked to the grammar and looked at the different grammatical rules in reading that text. So I said, well, so I'm saying why that third rule will help. You know, we said the first one is read the Bible as a text. The second one is not as English as you think. And yeah, so we said the third is find grammatical structure. So he now said that. So I said I like your arguments basically. But the challenge with what he was saying. And this is what you must always avoid in Bible study. Let me tell you what I mean, what I'm trying to say. If I'm.
8: If you say something now, then either I don't agree or I agree, or I just want to. It could be selfish, it could be unselfish. I just want to come at what you are saying. The moment I open the text, I'm going to be seeing you and seeing how I'm going to contradict you. Usually when we set out like that, there will be so many fragments of the truth, you will miss out. Even if what you are saying is eventually correct, you won't be totally correct because there is a mindset to your study. So if you set out to debunk something, right? If you set out to debunk something, you will always put out something that is incomplete. Where you are set out to debunk something. Now, you will definitely debunk eventually. Because truth always exposes falsehood.
9: Light exposes darkness, but don't focus on the darkness. So when you have. I want to prove something wrong. So at the back of the person's mind was that there was a subtle way of saying, of course, the idea of the Old Testament, whether it's the way the Old Testament was written, you know that. So he was trying to assert it. So. And I said, well, do something. If I read the conversation to another pastor yesterday, I said, do something. Read the book of Hebrews in paragraphs and you understand why that argument is valid. I said I would look away from the grammar because syntax is a question of interpretation. I can rearrange a statement. I mean, this morning a classmate of mine were doing a letter somewhere. So he did a letter and he just said, this is.
10: I know what he was trying to say. But he now said, because of who we are talking to. In fact, what he told me, he said, look, the professor in America, I said, I don't. It's been a while. I wrote like you Nigerians and British people there, sir. He said, where we talk, we just call ourselves. If I want to talk to anybody, I just talk to his people. I want to see. We don't write all these formal letters. So I knew he intended attention. So when he wrote it, he said, you know how you Nigerians talk to yourself. So everybody arrange it. So I now, I knew what he was trying to say. So I began to think about just this morning. Okay, let me rearrange the sign tags. The most important thing is the message, okay?
11: Now if you understand that The Bible goes through editing. It's not unlikely that people along the line looked for a grammatical structure that can interpret this message well to their world. Are you following what I'm saying here now? So I told the guy, I said, look at it. The pastor said, look at the paragraphing of these statements. By the time you paragraph, you will notice that the book of Hebrews is a book of comparison. Nobody can doubt that, right? It's a book that does comparisons. There's comparisons, there's the shadows, the better. It's all there. So I said, you have not highlighted the comparison in verse 1 and 2. You are yet to do that because from verse 4 through to almost Hebrews 2:9, almost Hebrews 2:16 is comprising between Jesus and those supernatural beings. So the opening page, is there a comparison?
12: Not been able to solve that. So whilst you were particular about the grammar, you missed a very critical part, which is both the historical context and eventually theological context. There is a comparison. The writer of Hebrews is doing a comparison between people, between Jesus and angels, Jesus and Moses, Jesus. That comparison is very clear. So you must highlight the comparison. What you have done grammatically eventually is not to see the comparison. You have blocked that comparison. You have taken away the message. So he said he saw my point. So I said paragraph it. When you paragraph it, no matter what syntax you eventually use, must address that comparison because that is what the writer of people is doing. So that's why the number three is that you must find the grammatical structure.
13: And from the post New Testament era we have a paragraphing where you are able to put like issues, right? Similar issues in the same bracket as it were. So it's a find the grammatical structure that explains it. So which means that if I'm going to do a grammatical structure, I will group verse one, verse two, verse three together because there's a comparison. God will assume the times in diverse manners. You might agree with that or disagree and say syntax wise. I'll say at diverse in divers manners in diverse times. The prophet spoke in the fathers about God, who in the last days has spoken to us in his Son, whom I burned head of all things, express image of his person, uphold all things by the word of his power. So you use Hebrews 1:3, you put it together.
14: Or you can even say God who has sundry times in diverse manners, spoke in time past. Now, while some will withdraw from that because they will say no, God doesn't speak in diverse manners. Men speak about him in diverse manners. You are both really having the same message. You get it? One may not want to put God at the centerpiece of the world who spoke in divers manners, but really it doesn't affect the message who is following here? So now. But the key thing you mustn't miss out is that there is a comparison going on. That comparison is that Jesus is not just one of the prophets. Jesus is not just one of supernatural beings. He is God that became a man. Jesus is not like David, Moses. Moses is the servant over the house. Jesus is the Son over the house.
15: There is a comparison, Jesus and Aaron. So you must find that comparison. So that's number three, who's following what I'm saying. Are we together? So that must work. You know, you must work. You must work around what is the comparison going on here? Okay, so we said that's the grammatical structure. Then number four, we said that what is the message? So which text is it interpreting? We're probably going to get to that. We are going to get there anyway. Is it interpreting here? And you see that the license of the textual interpretation, where you have an argument, we'll talk about this morning, the Luke 9:54, that we have textual variants. Some have argued and disagreed and all that.
16: So I found the cause of why there's a disagreement on Luke 9:54 and 55, where Jesus rebukes his disciples and their arguments around the variance of the text. Don't let it bother you that there are variant text. I just mentioned that editing is part of literature where, you know, the most important thing is that if the message is not lost, okay, if it's grammar, if it's literature, editorial work is part of it. It makes you even more confident that this is not something that was, you know, just arranged, you know, and it will go through. You know, I was saying something in the class and somebody was shocked. He said, you. I said, yeah. I said, sometimes in asserting the Pauline authority in Scriptures, we kind of even almost make Paul the Lamb of God that took away the sins of the whole world.
17: No, no, Paul cannot. He's Paul. No. Now there's only one Lord in Scripture. He's Yahweh, and we must never forget that. So we said, what text is it interpreting? By the time you find the text it's interpreting, then go back there. The theology is most likely. Always observe that. When I get to that number five, I said, it's most likely. I've never been, should I say, unequivocal, can I say is most likely, which means that by using that phrase. So every time I talk. Make sure you listen very well. Every time I say that, it means that there will be exceptions. So in. Sorry. In the Soviet Salvation and of course the earlier scenes with DID last year, I said that there will be some divergence and there will be convergence. Always find the connection.
18: So having said that, we said, what does the New Testament say? How does it apply it? Okay, why? Because it's closer to us than the Old Testament text. Then eventually we said, how do we apply it in today's world? That is actually why we are doing this series. And we started by saying, does the New Testament writer retain the supernatural world context view of the Old Testament writer? That's what we are doing this study about. So if we can accept that they will now ask in our world today, do we retain that same worldview of the Old Testament writer if it's asserted by the New Testament writer or not? Now, in 2nd Timothy, chapter 3 and verse 15, it is all scripture is given by 16. Sorry, I'm always starting verse 15.