1: Of course, when logic is out of the door, you go wow, that's the rema moment. But then suddenly he starts to talk about his parents. Then you are in an obfuscated view of life. How come someone without parents started from secondary school? Even the Incarnation had the most mom. So that theory looks cool till you sit down and think, does it make sense? I didn't have, I never existed. Then you say I have never sinned before. Then you say I receive forgiveness of sins. Which sins? The sins you never sinned before. That the new creation is higher than salvation. See, you are entering somewhere the holiest test of all. Far beyond the veil. I think we just need to have the truths complement each other.
2: You can actually say, you know, the new creation in Christ Jesus wasn't existing before now and said in a different way that will not confuse your audience. So new creation, new humanity. None of them is exhilarating. It's the man who was a sinner who's transformed by the power of the Holy Spirit is washed. First Corinthians 6:11 is joined with Christ. First Corinthians 6:17 is bought. First Corinthians 6:20. Someone was bought, Someone was sent. And that person is you. So new creation has to be renewed, right? Come on. And we say renewed what? Renewed humanity. Humanity is the plan. Humanity is not evil. Man is not evil. This is why the reformed theology is always fought with errors. Everything about man is evil. Never good. Never. That's not true.
3: If everything about man is evil and never good, how come God became a man and he rose as a man and he came back to his disciples in his humanity. If humanity was evil, there would be no reason to raise Jesus from the dead. It doesn't make sense. So that takes away the idea of evil humanity. Let mention this. If humanity was evil, then God will not renew the earth and choose to live there. We must change how we think. So new creation is better to be said to be renewed or restored. Repaired. Genesis 1:26 28 has humanity. Genesis 2:15. Humanity. That is what is being restored. So Paul doesn't stop with us now uses the word creation for us. But In Romans chapter 8. And I love when someone told me it's almost encouraging things he said.
4: I now appreciated the earth more, seeing it from God's view. If the earth is God's house, then I need to appreciate the earth. Romans chapter 8. Are you in church? Here is Paul. And verse 19 aside from 18. For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared to the glory that shall be revealed. New creation now and later. For the earnest expectation of the creature waits for the manifestation. Manifestation of the sons of God. For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who subjected in hope. Because the creature itself shall also be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travails in pain together. Until now, not only they, but ourselves also.
5: So it means that Paul is talking about the earth, right? Which have the first fruits of the Spirit. When we ourselves grow within ourselves, waiting for adoption. This is the key word, the redemption of our body. So which means the redemption of the body relates with the manifestation of the sons of God which the whole creation is waiting for. Manifestation simply means full disclosure. So new creation is not limited to individual believers. All the church. New creation affects the whole universe. God is renewing the whole universe. Isaiah 65:17. I'm about I will create a new heavens and a new earth. The former things will go away, new things will come. And there was a preparation from that, from Isaiah 40 to 55. Then going to Isaiah 65. Look at Isaiah 43, how Isaiah develops a new creation concept. Isaiah 40.
6: Of course, Paul liked Isaiah a lot. Isaiah 40. Comfort ye, my people. Isaiah 40, verse 5. The glory of the Lord shall be revealed. All flesh shall see it. Isaiah 47. The grass withers. It fades away because the Spirit of the Lord blows upon it. Surely the people is grass. Then he says, the grass withered, the flowereth. But the word of our God shall stand forever. They go to Isaiah. Now, from Isaiah 40 to 55, we have new creation thinking. Isaiah 43:18. Remember not the former things, neither consider the old things. I will do a new thing. Okay. Verse 19. Now it shall spring forth. You shall know it. Shall you not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness and rivers in the desert. Isaiah 54. Yeah. Sing.
7: O barren, thou that did not bear, bring forth into singing and cry aloud that thou do not travail with child. For more children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the Lord. Enlarge the place of thy tent. Let them stretch forth. Curtains of thine habitation, spare not. Lengthen thy cords and strengthen thy stakes. Isaiah 55:1. I'm just giving you snippets here. If you read it's preparation for new creation. What will be constituted? Lo ho. Everyone that thirsts comes to the waters. And he that has no money, come. Ye buy heat, and ye buy wine and milk. Without money and without price. Now look at verse nine. As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. For as the rain comes down, okay.
8: And snow from heaven, and returns not either, but waters the earth and makes it forth. Bring forth and burn, may give seed to the sow and breadth. So shall my word which goes out of my mouth. It shall not return to me void. It shall accomplish that which I please. It shall prosper in the things which are set. New creation. God is sowing the seed. I will bring forth a harvest. I think I skipped Isaiah 43:1. Now thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, fear not, for I have redeemed thee, call thee by name. Ye are mine. So redemption is called creation. 15. The Lord your God, the creator of Israel, your king israel, Ex the healer. Huh? He came out of people. Abraham was called out of the. So through to Isaiah 65, 17 and 18.
9: I create new heaven and earth, and the former shall not be remembered nor come to mind. That takes us back to Isaiah 43. And be ye glad and rejoice forever in that I create. Behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing and our people a joy. So, new creation, does it include people? Is it individualistic? It enriches us as individuals, but it's also for a people. Does it touch the earth? Huh? It does. Now, like I said, the challenge is it ex nihilo, destroy everything, start again, or walk through what is available, renew it and restore. Like I've mentioned over and over, the concept of Bara create is not exhibition. Hilo is used for the heart. It's used for Israel. It's used for Jerusalem. And Jerusalem was an existing city before Israel settled there. Simply means this was called so.
10: And so it's now called this new creation. I was a sinner, now I'm a sin. New creation. It's not exo Hilo coming from nothing. So Bara has to do with renovation, renewal, new. So now notice something that Peter speaks of in 2nd Peter 3. I think we looked at Stoichiome yesterday, right? 2Nd Peter 3. Now notice that in second Peter 2 it says in verse 5, he spared not the old world. Now look at that phrase. He spared not the old world. Second Peter. The word AOS a r C H A I O s where you have beginning? Okay, the old world. Is spread, not the old world AR c C H I O S Then cosmos arrangement, bringing in flood upon the world of the ungodly. So this writer says, what happened to Noah's world? Was it new? The old went away. Right?
11: And the new camera. Now was he externally healer? No, not at all. Look at chapter three. And verse 5. For this they willingly are ignorant of that by the word of God, the heavens were of old and the earth standing out of water in the water, whereby the word then was being overflowed with water, perished. Did you see it? Is that Noah now they perished there. Okay. Doesn't mean that there was nothing on ground anymore. No. Did God renew the earth? Yeah. So based on that, now let's. And the heavens and the earth, which are now by the same word, are kept in store, reserved to the fire against the day of judgment and perishing of the ungodly men. Which means that. Go and look at Noah. God saved people in the destroyed earth. He simply renewed the earth and renewed.
12: Genesis 1, verse 27 to 28. Now he says here in verse 8. Beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. That one day is with the Lord. A thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is long suffering towards us, and not willing that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. For the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with great noise. Noah. So what's the background of his Noah. Right good. So. And the helmet shall melt with fervent heat, and the earth also, and the works therein shall be burned up. Seeing that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought you to be in all holy conversations?
13: So here it says it's talking about conduct. Now the word dissolve. Luo L U o means to destroy, to put out, to discontinue, to melt. Repeats it in verse 12 again. Shall be discontinued, dissolved. So looking for the hastening at the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens, being on fire, will dissolve, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. Nevertheless we, according to his promise. Can we say like Noah? Huh? Can we say like Noah, which means that will man be on earth when the earth is becoming new? Huh? Because we said, that's the Genesis method. So look at this. And we look for a new heavens and a new earth wherein dwells righteousness. Therefore, beloved, seeing that you look for such things, be diligent that you may be found of him in peace, without sport and blameless. So is he.
14: Is he talking about an escape? No, there is no such doctrine in Scripture. An account that the long suffering of our Lord is salvation, even as our beloved brother Paul also, according to wisdom given unto him, and written unto you, as also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things which are from our hearts. Understood, and all that. So you have Peter talking about a new heavens and a new earth. Now look at Matthew 19:20. 28. I'll start from 27. Behold, we have forsaken all and followed thee. What shall we therefore have? He said to them? Verily I say unto you, Matthew 19:28, that you which have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of glory, you shall sit upon 12 thrones, judging the tribes of Israel in the regeneration.
15: The word here is palingenesia P A L I N G E N E S I A It means renewal in the renewal. In Titus 3. Fine, very clear. Not by works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us by the washing of polygenesia, regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost. Anakinos A N A K A I N O S I S so scriptures speak of irrelevant. So can destruction and renewal happen concurrently. Come on. Yeah, we see that. So we have Kainos, newness of quality. To simply change something substantially is where we have new creation. Kainus. So Paul's new creation theology. If we take it from you and I being born again, new creation means I'm a sinner. No, I'm a saint. Not that I never existed. I started as a saint. That's not biblical, right? New creation.
16: So new creation community. I was a Gentile, now I'm united to Jew. Now let me quickly show you something. Galatians 3, Do we retain? This is a tough one, but I'm probably going to take it up in what is mine after capital, do we retain? Is Paul. That's actually my argument. Not even this one. Let me just put that is Paul against nationality. And so people misquote Paul nationality. I'm not a Nigerian, I'm a Zionite, whatever that means. You don't even know that Zion is a place in the earth itself. I mean, Zionite. He thinks that Zion is his spiritual need. Zion is called the City of David in second Samuel five, seven. It's a place. It's like a military barracks. So you're saying you live in a military barracks? Okay. First Corinthians 12.