1: Worship them and serve them with the Lord your God. Apportion them out to all the nations below the heavens. So he's saying that God gave out the nations, but not to you. That's Israel. So Paul is saying here, Colossians 2, the worship of angels, that's the background. So the angels here are actually hosts of heaven. Now, before you get to this, Colossians 2, remember the problem with Colossians. Study our book on Colossians. They had what you call syncretism, which is where you join many belief systems as one. Now, in Colossians 1:15, he says, who is the image of God? Talking about Jesus, the firstborn of every creature. Look at the play of words. Achon, prototokos, theseis. Then it's 16.
2: For by him were all things created that are in heaven, in the earth, visible, invisible, whether they be thrones, dominions, principalities, powers, or things that were created by Him. And for him. He mentions the words Thronos, kuriotis, ache. Here they are all in this series. And the word exousia. Now, this is a summary of the word host of heaven. So it says, Jesus is the Lord of hosts. He is before all things. By him are all finished. All things referring there are referring to the host of heaven. He is the head of the body, the church who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead in all things in mind. So now it moves from Jesus as God. Colossians 1:16, of course, verse 15. As a man. God who became a man. Then as God. Colossians 1:16, then as God. Colossians 1:17.
3: Then it talks about him as God, as and man. Colossians 1:18 he calls him the Kephale, the head of all principalities and powers. So that's the Lord of host of the Old Testament. That is the being that the psalmist said I saw in the midst of angels. That uses it has preeminence Poteo P R o T e o so here we have Paul is now warning the church in Colossi about this kind of worship. In Colossians 2, 8 bear lest any man spoil you through philosophy and being deceit after the transition of men. The rudiments of the world the word Stochion S T o C H I C H E I a or S T o C H E O n which refers to. Now look at that word again.
4: We have done this over and over in this series the Rudiments of the World that word stoichio is for heavenly beings. Now why is this prominent? Because the story 2, 8, 9 says that at some point God divided the nations of the earth to the sons of God. Then he now made Israel as his vehicle nation. No doubt the phrases there remember First Genesis chapter 11, but let's just stick to this. So Paul is now saying, look, you must make sure that you are not worshipping the beings Worship the Lord of look at nine. For in him dwelleth all the fullness of God bodily. And you are completely which is the head of all principality and power. Now in Colossians 2, 20 he says, be dead from Christ view. Dead and the rudiments of the world why are you subject in living in world?
5: Are you subject to ordinances? Again, stoichioin is used in Galatians chapter four, verse three. Now let's even start from one. Now I say that the heir as long as a child divided not from a tavern, but there be lot of all and is under tutors and governors of the time appointed of the Father. Now no doubt now people are wondering what Paul is talking about here. Remember Jeremiah 32, verse 8 and 9 in this series we said that when Genesis 11 happened, God divided the nations. And Jeremy, chapter 32 says that to the sons of God the arguments of the children of Israel can't be Children of Israel is the supernatural beings that were attested to. Deuteronomy chapter 4. We read it now. Now where divided nations to the host of heaven. Now Paul is saying something here very unique.
6: He says that even when were children were in bondage under the elements of the world. Stoichio. Again, these heavenly beings. He says now, when the fullness of time was come, God sent forth his son made of a woman made under the law. Now go to verse nine or verse eight. When you knew not God, you did service unto them, which by nature are no gods. But now verse nine that you have known God, or rather known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements Torture. Where unto you desire again to be in bondage. Second second Peter, chapter three. So the word soitzhon, the elements refers to. I don't know why the King James uses elements. He's talking about heavenly beings, supernatural beings. So that's why we said, does the New Testament writer retain spiritual world context? Yes, it does.
7: Second Peter 3, verse 10. The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night, in which the heavens shall pass away with great noise and the elements shall melt with fervent heat. The earth also and the walks are in the elements. Estoi chant verse 12 looking for the hastened and coming from the day of the when the heavens been on fire shall be dissolved and the elements the heavenly beings. Not talking about the sovereign as the heavenly beings using Old Testament language. So in Luke 10:17, when disciples came back and said, lord, the demons are subject to us through your name. Jesus responded and said, I beheld Satan fall as lightning from heaven I beheld Satan fall as lightning. Now look at the word lightning that he used. He said, I saw.
8: Now when he said I saw the word theoreo there T h e o r u o is not a vision of the future. No, it's an experience that he had. That statement shows you that Jesus was very involved in the activities of the Old Testament. I saw Satan fall. The word pipto to come out just like what we have read in the Old Testament as lightning. Now the word lightning here is the word astrape a s t r a p e from the word astrapho a s t r a p h o which in Luke 17:24 and Luke 24:4 refers to heavenly beings is also from the word astar a s t r used for the stars. Matthew 2:27, verse 9 and 10, Matthew 24:29 and Mark 13, First Corinthians 15:41. There are beings celestial and beings terrestrial.
9: Three times Jude 13 and 17 times in the book of Revelation. And they are referring to supernatural beings. I saw Satan fall as lightning. Supernatural beings. When did that happen? That didn't happen on the cross. That happened in the Old Testament events. So very key is that Jesus is referring to events that have happened as the Lord of hosts. Now where can we Find evidence of that. Psalm 80, verse 1 to 3 is an example. Psalm 89. So Jesus is asserting himself and his writers. The writers are doing the same as the Lord of hosts of the Old Testament. So we can't therefore compare Jesus to Moses in any way. Even though Jesus is a man, but he's the God that Moses worshiped that became a man.
10: So within the Old Testament text, we're going to see Jesus as God, Moses and then supernatural beings. So the context of things being happened. Now another big question that can be answered is can those supernatural beings err? I don't know why people don't feel that angelic beings can err. Why can't they err? They agreed that if Moses can err and Abraham can err, but they don't agree spiritual being can err. That's wrong theology. They can err. You know, they can err. Supernatural being does not mean it is error free. No, we are going to explore that in now, in Luke 9. I think I'll just close on this one. In Luke 9. I was talking about the authors the other time, Luke 9. So again the question is, does the New Testament writer retain the spiritual worldview of the Old Testament? Yes.
11: So we would therefore need to find the application in today's world. Is the postmodern era as supernatural as it pre modern era? The writers of the New Testament do agree in Luke 9. Now this is a huge challenge in Luke 9 because Jesus is going to Samaria and something happens. He did not receive it in verse 53 Samaritans and it was to go to Jerusalem. So in verse 54, disciples James and John saw this. They said, lord, would you at this time that we command fire to come down from heaven and consume them even as Elijah did? Now there are arguments on the word Elijah. I can safely say that the word Elijah is not in the very original text.
12: So there is now an argument that now of course on the face of it, who say, well, Jesus is saying, don't be like Elijah. Now those who want to argue will come and say, but the original text. And you know, a guy came up and told me that the word Elijah is not in the origin. I said, I knew. I said, I knew. Now, just like Mark 16:8 to 20 is not the original letter, does it mean I won't preach it? They say, but you know, this Elijah should not be like Elijah. I said, well, when he was trying to argue, I said the first thing is that's not the first time that an Elijah action is going to Be critiqued. I said, look at Romans 11. We.
13: We must, as we all, we must never compare the Old Testament, any person, including Paul, to Jesus. It's a huge challenge. We shouldn't. There are things that they have done were not to emulate. They are described, but they are not prescribed. Romans 11:1 I say, Then had God cast away his people, God forbid, for I also am an Israelite of the seed of Abraham of the tribe of Benjamin. God had not cast away his people, which he forgot you was you not what the scripture said of Elijah, how he makes intercession to God against who? Israel saying, lord, they have killed thy prophets, dig down thy altars. I'm left alone and seek my life. Which means he made against.
14: And what said the answer of God to him I have reserved to myself 7,000 men who have not bowed the knee to the image of baal. Let me ask a question. Was Elijah wrong? Was Elijah wrong? Here he was obviously right. Elijah's assertion was wrong. Of course he was human, despaired, I mean, under threat, desperate. But the point was Elijah. Here of course we have James 5:16. Elijah's prayer life was acknowledged. He looked for his ministry as a prophet was acknowledged. But that doesn't mean that the writers of the New Testament put him in a position just like Jesus. They couldn't have. Now back to Luke 9. Are translations right for including Elijah in that text? Are they right for including Elijah in that text? Please. Who else called down fire?
15: Let's even assume without conceding that there is no Elijah there, which is true. Who called down fire? Now what happened is that later variants of that text who are editors, found out the evidence. What the evidence? That 2 Kings 1, 10, 2nd Kings 1 12, 14 was Elijah who called down fire? You might not see it in some translations because it's not original. It can even be called an italicized word. But the point is, it was Elijah who called down fire in Scripture. So if Jesus is saying that they couldn't do that, his own obviously saying they couldn't act like Elijah. It's as simple as that. Now we could now say, know you not the spirit that you are of now that could have a multi layered meaning. One of which could be, well, don't put yourself in shoes of Elijah.
16: One note that Elijah has an evil spirit, okay? The second could be very plain. Is not the time for such judgment because Jesus eventually spoke of fire later on. Are there times that Jesus made a comparison with others? I'll close on this. In John 6 he said Moses gave you not that bread that is from heaven. He made a comparison. He said a greater than Solomon is here. He made a comparison between himself and John the Baptist. Definitely Elijah too. So there is nothing dishonoring of Scripture if we say Jesus is greater and we see in the lives of the prophets as things are described but are not prescribed. And we say, and this is why the Christocentricity of Scripture is critical, that we see Jesus as God who became a man and the Scriptures converge on him.
17: Not that we see every text about Jesus that's error prone. But we must not get to the point where we cannot see His Majesty. The writer of Hebrews makes that clear. Comparison is not the prophets, is not the Elohim, he is not Moses, is not Aaron. He comes with a greater and more perfect tabernacle. And therefore Christology for us must be enforced in our eventual thinking and submission of Scripture. Where people like brother Hagin will say is in progressive revelation that sums up in a person of Jesus only that in closing today I would say we have to be honest in the way we read the text and not biased or reach a conclusion in haste. So does the New Testament writer retain the contextual world context of the Old Testament? He does. And we must therefore investigate how things happen.
18: If Moses was involved, if the angels were involved, we cannot therefore see perfection. No, we can't. To see perfection whilst you have human agency, it means that you are definitely blindsided reality. I'll stop on that today. We'll pick it up next week.
19: Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/