1: This is why I said that we must find the divergence and convergence. Look at how the writer of Hebrews describes the giving of the law, Hebrews 2. Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we let them sleep. For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompense of reward. So the writer of Hebrews talks about angels. So there is a divergence somewhere. Say angels gave it in Hebrews 3 and verse 2. Who was faithful to him that appointed him. Also Moses was faithful in all his house. For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, insomuch as he who build the house hath more honor than the house. For every house is builded by some man.
2: For he that built all things is God. Moses truly was faithful in all his house as a servant for a testimony of those things which are spoken after. But Christ is his son over his own house. Now pay attention. So this is where the Christological thinking is very critical. You must not equate Jesus and Moses. There's something greater that Jesus brought. We're seeing it soon too, is greater. And that comparison was made by the writer of Hebrews. So now why does it appear like he's making a comparison? Because what he's addressing is different. The theology in the epistles, they differ on application, not in substance. There is what he is addressing, and we'll see what he's addressing shortly. He's addressing something else, which is Why? I said from the onset that there's a comparison going on. So you must know what he's addressing.
3: Now, in Hebrews 10, Hebrews 8, the same writer here speaks of Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle. They say Moses built the tabernacle. Hebrews 8:5, Hebrews 7:14 is evident. Our Lord sprang out of Judah, of which tribe Moses spake not concerning the priesthood. He said Moses said about the suprisu. But I thought we read angels now in Hebrews Chapter two. Now, a dear friend of mine, a younger friend, did say that he felt that the angels in Hebrews 12, the COVID of angels talking about ministers. I said, egugu, be careful. You enter express egobu is masquerade. I said, no, you can't say that because the word agelos is used generally for meaning ministers. That cannot be the import because you have read angels from the very first verse.
4: And the comparison was made about which of the angels said at any time. He said, they are flames of fire. That cannot be. I would say so. I got the same. Let's be coming down. Okay, look at Hebrews 10, verse 28. He that despised Moses law died without mercy under two or three witnesses. So the writer of Hebrews has presented two givers of the law. Right? Have you noticed it? An earthly instrument. And the heavenly ones, supernatural ones. Now, is that the context of Bible words? Huh? Are you here? So you have seen that the writer of Hebrews has presented two people, two Abraham agencies, the angels. Okay? And then it presents Moses. Look at Acts of the apostles, Acts 7. Before Acts 7.
5: Look at Acts 3, Verse 21 of whom heaven must receive unto the times of rest of all things which God has spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began. For Moses truly said to the fathers, a prophet. Shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me him shall you hear in all things. Whatsoever he shall say unto him. Interpretation or significance. Thank you. Shall come to pass. Every soul who should not hear that prophet shall be destroyed among the people. That's actually Joshua, yea, And all the prophets from Samuel. And those as follow after, as many as have likewise foretold of these days. Okay, now go to Acts 7, Stephen's sermon. Pay attention here.
6: All right, this is that verse 37, Moses, which said to children of Israel, a prophet, Lord your God, raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me him shall you hear. This is not Peter now. This is Stephen. This is he that was in the church in the wilderness, with the angel which spake to him in the Mount Sinai. And our fathers, who received the lively oracles to give to us, to whom our fathers would not obey, but trust him from them, and in their hearts turned back again to Egypt, saying to Aaron, make us gods. And went on. So we have seen that Stephen is talking about angel. Look at verse 73. Who received the law by the disposition of angels and have not kept it. By the disposition of angels and have not kept it.
7: Now that word disposition in the Greek is the word dartage D I T A G E instrumentality like to delegate responsibility. So of course the angels here is plural, right? And we have a singular 1 in 38 very Old Testament in thinking. Galatians 3:19. So who gave the law? Moses and supernatural beings. Right. So which means the law has both a natural and supernatural origin. Galatians 3 and 19. Wherefore then Sabbath? The Lord it was harder because of transgressions. Till the till the seed should come to whom the promise was made. It was ordained by angels. Ordained by angels in the hands of a mediator. Now I must admit that this is a poline thinking. How is it for lying? Luke is polite. Whenever you read Luke, just know that you are reading Paul.
8: He uses diataso D I a T a double S O S S O. Not similar to what we read about diatage. It means to set, to do something. Like I said, okay, you be doing this, you do this one. And it says in the hand of a mediator. So it's either we agree the mediator is the ordained angel or angels, or the mediator and the angels are distinguished but not separated. So now obviously the giving of the law has been split into the natural and the supernatural agency. Now that leads us to a little bit challenge we might have with the use of angels. Let me say this very quickly. It becomes a bit odd for us to assume that in Tokyo Salvation we said that. Did the New Testament writer read non biblical materials? We said yes.
9: Did they read non biblical theological materials? Let me give you a bit of a background. Today I don't just read the Bible. Even though the Bible is the authority of doctrine. I don't. I've been influenced by explanations from different people. Critically people. Brother Hagin EW Kenyon Very initially in my life today I do studies in biblical languages, history. There is no way it won't find its way in what I say now. Were there things being said between the closed canon of the Old Testament and the teachings of Jesus. Yes. For example, you will see an interrelationship between the terms of. You won't see Pharisees and Sadducees in the Old Testament. You see scribes, no doubt. You won't see demons, even though you have the New Testament very loud about demons. Which means that.
10: And there are other phrases we are going to see shortly, which means in between the Old and New Testament there were interpretations or interpretation materials that was available to whoever was writing that we might have to see. For example, the use of ecclesia, which is the word synagogue or episynagogy, where we have church. So I dare say that the concept of church transmits from the assembly in the wilderness through to the building of mini temples in what is usually called the Second Temple period. And then we now have the synagogue. So what now happened when the synagogues emerged from. When did you see it in the Old Testament? There therefore will be modes of. I'm sorry, let's say a period where the things of the Old Testament were interpreted, printed.
11: The materials are not authoritative, but they do have significance or impact in how New Testament writers wrote. For example, historically, after. And this became a challenge. I mentioned this before, that the Old Testament audience always knew that there were two persons in the Godhead. A third one maybe not as clear. The Trinity concept. So you have that. You had the visible Yahweh that they always saw. You had the non visible. This is where the challenge now is. Now, the Old Testament had one singular word for anyone on an errand. You had the word malak. So you have the angel of the Lord. Dilemma. Is this a messenger or is this God where the angel of the Lord uses the first person pronoun. We can only stick with the text, of course, in our minds we are scared.
12: We are scared of not sounding like Church of Latter Day Saints that simply say that Jesus was angel and even the brother of Lucifer. I dare say that fear might even hinder us from knowing the truth. Because you don't want to sound that way. I remember I've said this before. Now when we're doing plant consulting and posture. The last things are God. One of our reviewers said to me, he said. He said, you have. This is what he said. He said, you have broken the chinks of trying not to sound like Jehovah Witness. In fact, Watchtower, I said, why? He said, because anybody that speaks so much of the earth will be seen as Jehovah Witness. But what we fail to see is that most errors are twisted truths. So Sometimes we don't want to have anything to do with that error at all.
13: Even though there is a truth that was twisted in it. I said, it's like me too, that because I used to have tussles with Muslims and calling Jesus a prophet, I never wanted to call Jesus a prophet. So I never did. I was reading Matthew 11 like this and when I saw look at Matthew 11, I mean, that's what bias is. I didn't want to sound like, no, no Muslims. You know, no, I lie never. So meanwhile, he called himself a prophet. He said, no, no, he's not saying it that way in Matthew 11. Okay. In verse, of course. Verse 9. What, you went out to see a prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet, this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send myself to the face, which I prefer.
14: So somehow I now took the more than a prophet as Jesus. It was now in one of our materials I put on Facebook. So while we're doing one of our books, put it there. So someone now told me. He said, sir. He said, it's not Jesus. I said, no. I argue that day. I said no, because I had a mindset about not sounding like an Islamic or that battle I used to fight with Muslims. He said, sir, it's not. We argued and argued. It was Those days of BlackBerry. I said, sir. He was trying to explain because that thing was really grammar. So I saw it. I said, you are right, he's just unbattling something. So I said, but the problem is that we have printed the book. Are you going to pay? He. So I called Pastor Wally.
15: I said, look, we are wrong. I'm wrong. Actually he's actually John the Baptist. That was called more than a prophet, you know, the same way the challenge was now that people have now risen because of the word malak. I was going to say something before that I've said it in this series over and over again that the Jews knew there was a second Yahweh, but they were not dealing with polytheism like we are dealing with now. Plurality of those worshipped as God. We are dealing with that now because they were not dealing with that. They did not have a problem with identifying two persons in God. Now two things are now risen. One, the challenge of who Jesus is, the claims of who Jesus is had risen.
16: So there was now a conscious effort to deny the concept of Trinity because of Jesus by Jewish established institutions, theologically speaking, that is by one side. Also, by the time the Septuagint was being done and reviewed and revised. It's not a perfect Bible. The There was now a contention on the concept of the word Elohim and the angels. It had reason that people were practically now, of course, idolatry, polytheism was now a bit of a challenge, maybe not as major. The Septuagint Bible now used a word was that. I believe that. Look at Genesis 6, for example. It says here in verse four, giants were upon the earth in those days after. When the sons of God entered into the daughters of humans, they fathered children for themselves. Those were the giants who were long ago the people of renown.
17: So he identifies that these were. Sons of God. Now, there was something I wanted to say. I don't know why I skipped it. Look at verse two. Happened when humans began to become numerous sons. I'm being Septuagint now. And they had daughters, the angels of God. The angels of God. So you can see that it used angels. They use sons of God. Can you see it now whether you like it or these are humans, there is definitely a challenge on the phrase sons of God and also angels of God. Now, why does he use angels of God? Because the word malak servant. Now, in Genesis chapter 48, where Jacob identifies a unique angel, he says in verse 15, and he blessed Joseph and said God, before whom my fathers Abraham, Isaac did work.
18: The God which fed me all my life long, until this day, the angel which redeemed me. There's no argument that he calls the God angel there. The God messenger is not the regular angel. The God messenger said the angel that redeemed me. Genesis 48. So in the construction of the Hebrew, the God, the angel, and that follows through. Now, the arguments are no. That the patriarchs took the angel for God. But now why would you talk like that? It's not true that they took God or they were reverencing the angel as if they angel was God. Moses. No. Now, therefore, we are facing a grammatical challenge because the term angels today has been conscripted, or let's say restricted to those servants that we know about, unfortunately, the ones that have wings.