1: So that it went ill with Moses for their sakes. Because they provoked his spirit so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips unadvisedly. Leviticus 5 and verse 4. So is it. Him hitting the rock that was the issue? Exactly. What he said right now. The hitting the rock could have been the consequence of it. But it is actually what he said. Said Leviticus 5. And verse 4. If a soul swear, pronouncing with his lips to do evil or to do good, whatever it be that shall pronounce an oath, it shall be from him. And when he knows it, then he shall be guilty in one of this. So that's the same Hebrew word. Unadvised. Now look at Proverbs 12:18. There is he that speaks like the persons of his sword. But the tongue of the wise is healed. Proverbs 12 and verse 18.
2: So he spoke unadvisedly. We find David also who spoke rashly. Second Samuel, where he said, let the man be worthy of death and let him restore fourfold. We have Elijah. We just read now that assumed he was the only prophet. Obviously missed it. Samuel also said, Eliab the Anointed is here for his first encounter. He had to go and call Eli to know whether it was him calling him or not. We look at Abraham, Isaac. I want to say something quick before I forget. You know that after that numbers 20 scenario where Moses couldn't take the nation of Israel anymore. He was still working miracle. But he wouldn't enter that land. It was still working. Was still leading them. Was he teaching them? It was after that, listen to this. That he now gave Deuteronomy, this book of the law.
3: And it is still his material that was used. Does that make sense to you? Huh? Was still his material. But hey, you are not going to do this one. So a preacher can miss it in one area. It doesn't mean every other area is wrong. He obviously missed it here. So we have Abraham, right? Servant of God had his fault. Isaac, Jacob, Noah. Right. Anyone perfect among them? None. Okay, that's looking sweet. Until we now say, what about Paul, Peter, James and John? Paul and Barnabas. They fought and they separated from each other. Peter, James and John. Does the death of Jesus confer on them the ability to be compared with Jesus? Talk to me. No. Were they just like the Old Testament, Servants of God? Yes. So they get it right now. Who gave the law? God. Who gave the law? Moses.
4: Who gave the law? The angels. So now pause, pause. Because you get. So we have had three parties. God through angels, then Moses. So let's separate the parties. Let's distinguish the parties or the persons. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. You have God. So, God. Perfect. Divine. Talk to me. Excellent. Moses. Perfect. Divine. Excellent. No. What about the angels? Perfect. Yeah. Thank you. Not perfect too. Is that okay? Acts 14:15. Paul says to them, we are men of like passions. We are men of like passions. The word passion there is. Is the Greek word omoipatis. H o m o I P a t h e s. H o m o I p a t h e s in the same word. In James 5:17, Elijah was a man of like pastures.
5: What he's simply saying is the two words there, the word pastures P a s c h O s and the word homois. H o m o I s simply means he has the same kind of emotions like you. He has the same kind of experience like you. He does. So is he subject to presumptions, assumptions? So when Paul says, we're just like you, they are conferring on themselves nothing like perfection. So whether it's pre Jesus or post Jesus death, none of God's servants was conferred with the same authority and expected excellence like that of Jesus. Is that clear? Now, do not Forget the Scriptures. 100% God, 100% man. Right. And the events of the Scriptures. 100% God,100% man. Good. This will be answered in the second session. Much more. So, the supernatural beings called the vows of heaven, were they perfect?
6: Can they make errors of judgment? So the golden question, Is heaven a perfect place now? No. No, it's not. Heaven is not a perfect. If heaven is not a perfect place, the earth is not a perfect place. And God's servants in the two spheres are not perfect. Can we have imperfect actions? Now this is an aside. But could there be actions taken by his servants that God will assume responsibility? Huh? Okay, we'll go up to that later on. Is heaven a perfect place? The very first heavenly world is Genesis 3, Garden of Eden. Right? Was there imperfection there? Did sin happen there? Yes. Genesis 6 and 3. The beings that came to daughters of men, were they heavenly beings? Good. Huh? All right. Psalm 82. God stands in the congregation of gods. Elohim's. And he judges. Amongst the gods.
7: How long would you judge unjustly? So supernatural beings who are called gods, call them angels of God, judged wrongly Psalm 89, Verse 4. And heavens shall praise thy wonders, O Lord, Thy faithfulness. Also in the congregation of the saints. Can we take six together? For who in the heavens can be compared to the Lord? Who amongst the sons of the mighty can be likened so it's therefore clear to us that heaven has never been perfect. And therefore heaven's operations too have never been perfect. Heaven has never been a perfect place. In Ephesians 1, 16:22, when Paul prayed, he says, when God raised Jesus from the dead, he sat at the right hand of God in the heavens, far above principalities, power, might and dominion. Far above.
8: In Ephesians, chapter 6 and 10, it says, Be strong in the Lord and in the power of his might. Now notice what he says to do. He says, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. Now he now says, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood. Now look at what the English Bible has done to us. But against principalities and powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness. King James is in the high. But it's the same word eporanous in the heavenlies. E P O U R A N I O S Notice where the disciples said they were going to call down fire from. From heaven. Heavenly world. Isaiah 14. Now first, heaven is a supernatural world, right? Huh? Isaiah 14, Verse 12.
9: How art thou falling from heaven? O Lucifer, son of the morning, falling from heaven. Ezekiel 28, Verse 13. Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God. 15. You were perfect in your ways from the day that was created till iniquity was found in you. Now these heavenly beings are not perfect. The, the earthly concurrent servants are not perfect. And God is working with these non perfect beings who can err. Can they err? Misjudge? Yes, they can. So now let's ask a question. As stewards of God's power, can they abuse that right? Can they misuse it? Right. Can they misuse it? Yep. Can they get better with time? Can they err with it? So can we get some actions in scriptures that is not necessarily that God is the One who endorsed them?
10: Is it possible now, will those actions include the power he gave them and the authority who's following this? Will he take responsibility for it? Yes. So if we have, the fact that angel is kind of an assignment doesn't mean the delivery is perfect. No, it doesn't. So pay attention here. When you say to call down fire from heaven, they must have said it because that happened before, right? Does it mean that the action was correct? No. Does it mean it's incorrect? It's still no. You have to study what happened. So we just saw Moses who rebelled against the Lord, and we saw a miracle flow from there. We also saw a Moses who was not going to keep carrying on the role he was assigned. But he kept seeing miracles and teaching the nation of Israel.
11: That's why we said we mustn't compare them with the Lord Jesus Christ, who is also a servant. Let's come to the New Testament quickly and then we'll see. Let's start at 30. Now, in the New Testament, we have been given God's spirit, right? God's power. Can we also misuse it? What was Paul writing about in First Corinthians 14? Abuse. Huh? So he now says that if somebody gives a revelation, we should judge. Why is Paul asking you to judge? Because now he's not calling the guy fake, he's asking you to judge. Because that something flows from the supernatural doesn't mean it is perfect. Are you with me? Are you here? Does not mean it is perfect. That an action involves the power of God doesn't mean the action is correct or perfect. Both the utterance gifts and the revelation gifts.
12: Paul asks us to judge. What are we judging? We're not judging whether the guy is born again. We're not judging whether the fellow is led by the Spirit. We're judging whether he has dispensed the ministry as he should. There also can be an abuse. So having seen that, it therefore means that when it comes to perfection, we have to look at Jesus. But our journey must fall back to the events of the Old Testament. So let's close with this simple statement. Heaven has never been perfect. Heavenly actions have never been perfect. The supernatural can also be ministered in an imperfect way, right? Why? Because the vessels are human. So the supernatural world has its own imperfections. Heaven, if you may, has its own imperfections. God's servants.
13: So of the three personalities we identify in the stories of Scriptures, God, Father, Son and Spirit man, his servants, his priests, his kings, his prophets. And of course, we have the supernatural. Natural beings. We should only expect perfection through one. And even that perfection is limited by the imperfection of number two and three. So write this down quickly. It means therefore, that to understand what is the counsel of God, I may have to read the context of the Bible altogether. Commentary made about it later on. And secondly, there are many events in Scriptures that are descriptive, not prescriptive. What do I mean by that? Go to the Amalekites and clear them. That does not prescribe going somewhere and taking them out. It's only discreet or something that happened. So we must know that difference. A narrative form, a clear instruction.
14: Are we making sense here? So are you making sense here? So the servants are judged. Let me just say something in closing then take a I'll take it up much later. You know, there's a way we New Testament. I'm polite and I'm guilty of this. There's a way we have deified Paul that he must not err. He cannot err. This is Paul because sometimes we assume that it's a myth like that Jesus sat down with him and taught him the word. So does that mean he understood it? That's not even true. So we do have a responsibility to study Scriptures properly and know what is prescriptive and what is descriptive. So we'll come back by nine.
15: Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/