1: Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11. I want to view the context. You know, the last time we said that in reading, particularly the old Testament, Hebrews 11. Let's read that first, say through faith, we understand that the world. Okay, let's start from verse one. It says, now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. So you have not seen. Which means that there's a supernatural context to the events of the Old Testament by if the elders obtain a good report through faith, we understand that the walls, which is the word onion, the activities were framed by the word of God. It says, and the things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. So on two occasions there it talks about the supernatural context, supernatural world events of scripture.
2: And so our focus should not just be on the grammar. There is the grammatical context. Yeah, which they are all interrelated. There's grammatical context, there's the cultural context, but there is also the supernatural context where we would need to. If I have time in the second session tomorrow, we look at the fact that a whole lot of theology of the Old Testament, which forms the base of the New, takes their say, grammar and expression from the religion of the ancient Near Eastern world of the Old Testament. That is, they made references that were similar. And it looks funny, but we might need to view things from that point of view. That is, see things from through their eyes.
3: For example, one thing I'll talk about tomorrow is if you get to Egypt today and you go to their ancient temples, the ancient temples of the Egyptians had a garden like nature. They also had within the same temple structure, they had the cherubims, just like that. Genesis 3. 24. Now, for someone who doesn't know the context of the Bible, that may look shocking. You may think that the Bible was lifted from such a world and maybe it's not true. But that should actually give you much. Should I say strengthen your position? Because it means that the Bible never existed in a vacuum. Obviously the things happening in their world will form their grammar and history. So you have the guardian temple. So that's why when the audience will read Garden of Eden, they will see a temple.
4: Same way when you talk about the shrine or the coffin of the Ark of Noah, which is the Teba, what they are seeing is a place of worship, not a boat. So all those things, are they bringing the context of words. So things not seen. Hebrews 11:3, which is the word blepho. Sorry, Hebrews 11:1, which where he had word be po, then repeats it again in Hebrews 11, 3, not seen. So which is supernatural. That is the non natural context of Scripture. So in second Timothy 3, 15, 16, pardon me, when it says all scripture is given by inspiration of God. The last time out we looked at the work of the Spirit and we said that if you track it very well. Another thing we are going to also see tomorrow when you.
5: Because it came out from Egypt, the language is similar, which I mentioned one day and somebody didn't like it. I said all the feasts were also taken from that context. Now someone asked me that, but why would God, Yahweh and the Lord Jesus Christ, both names are similar? Why would he adopt such things? So I said, what are they for? He said, they are for worship. Who is he? He says, the God of all gods. Say it again. Oh, he said, no, I get your point. So that doesn't. That actually affirms it that no, it's not Pharaoh or it's not Ashur, it's Yahweh. So now the emblems and mode of worship obviously is progressing and not perfect, but it is still worship because it's given to the God of that God. So that's very vital. So they will take a lot of.
6: I mentioned the temple space. I also said, yeah, the issue of breath, you know, I said it the other time that when you say nostrils, they understood that nostrils refers to the inanimate yet animating part of that being, which is the spirit, the ruach. So they understood it. That's very key that within their cultural context, that's the way they read the activities of the supernatural world. One of the things we said here is that they didn't make a separation. And I'm going to say that again. It's the challenge of the 21st century church. We have done a separation already and we're having challenges with it. Later in the second session we'll look at something there. We've done a separation. The concept of heaven, if we don't talk about it very well, will keep having these challenges with Scripture.
7: They make a distinction and not a separation, which means that they saw heaven and earth as overlapping functions, but we see it as planets. So if the New Testament writer retains the. It might not retain the cultural context. Of course the grammar is different, but the supernatural world context, which is very key to theology. You know, I said that there's the divergence of theology, then there's where it converges again. And we mustn't be answering a question that is different. I think I said something on Facebook yesterday that usually we assume, for example, that the Reformation era, which is the 16th century and that's closer to us where we have the Protestants, they were resolving issues that we might not have today. And Paul wasn't resolving such issues. So trying to think we are facing the same challenges is wrong.
8: And they came up with a lot of theological concepts. Some cool, some hey, you know. And I think one of the ones that looks like the elephant in the room is the infallibility of scripture. What you can call the inerrancy which every believer submits to because that is God's word to us. However, the way we view it, our mode of explaining it is where there's an issue. For example, I did mention how Calvin, John Calvin, who is a promoter, or let's say the forefather of the Reformation era, expressly saw that the writers of scriptures, either by copy or editing, obviously made allusions that we can fault now. Now that shouldn't give anybody a challenge because we're going to see something shortly. It's the more human I see documentation of the Bible, the more assuring for me that it's a honest book.
9: Okay, so by saying that scriptures, only scriptures cannot be. The attempt not to accept that there were extra biblical sources used in scripture, it couldn't have even been possible because how would you. The Bible could not have existed in a vacuum. Also gives the challenges. Now I do understand that they were facing a very corrupt system according to history of then the universal church that seems to, you know, try to downplay the authority of scriptures. But hey, sometimes incurring an extreme, going to another extreme brings a greater problem. And what has happened to that is that we now have, well, depends on Our statistics, between 33 to 10,000 divisions, call them denominations existing doctrinally in the body of Christ. I don't think it has helped. Which means from thesis of Martin Luther, we have now.
10: And even Martin Luther and his associates fell out, then falling out, continued like that. And we term them revivals depending on how we see it up to this point, we still have that division, you know, So I think the way we resolve doctrinal issues is very important, that we should know where our disagreement is fundamental and where it's not. You know, I think I answered this in so great salvation, is there a possibility that Paul and James might, I won't use the word disagree, might have a different view around the same thing. And I said there's nothing wrong in that. It doesn't. It's not perfect, but it's not wrong, you know, but without sorting out that, no, what is usually assumed to be a disagreement was not.
11: But have it at the back of your mind that it doesn't put any integrity issues on Scripture. Not at all. So, by the way. So in looking at that, it means the New Testament writer is. If he's writing from the Old Testament, he does he retain his natural worldview? We said he does because of the elements involved in his writing. So if he does, we have to pay attention to literary terms or literary gems used by a normal book that is writing from another. That's why we developed the codified language theme method, which is how to read it. We're also going to repeat the fact that we have said that the interpretation is not the letters, because interpretation is oftentimes wider, more exhaustive, more explanatory, more comprehensive, which the epistles do not offer us. So we must therefore know what the epistles are for.
12: The couldn't have been the interpretation. Application, yes. Significance, yes. Fulfillment, yes, but interpretation, no. And that looks tough because it's usually our slide in. I don't want to use excuse. That's interpretation. By the time you say it's text in New Testament, when the Das adaptation. But. But no. Interpretation starts with what the audience heard, what the audience believed, what the audience understood. If they didn't understand that interpretation would be out of sorts. For example, Paul applies the serpent to false teachers. Did the audience of Moses think the serpent was a false teacher? No. Did Moses teach the serpent, or let's say the authors of Genesis 3, the Nakash, as a false teacher? No. So Paul is not interpreting there. He's applying because there is a connection between the nakash, the supernatural being who can be seen on different templates, and false teaching.
13: So Paul just makes a connection. Then he uses that text. He's not interpreting it. Rather, we said that there is the codifying silence where the teacher assumes you are the same audience he taught last week, last month, last year. You have sufficient information about how he interprets the Old Testament. Now he applies it into your world. So the application into the world is what we read in the epistles. So let me quickly mention this. I would this also in our books, is there a difference between a theme and a motif? Now, in the codified language and identification, we have the motif. Now, a theme is an underlying dominant idea in a written piece. You can have a theme of love, romance, hatred, rivalry, envy, a theme of competition, theme of hate. I mentioned that theme of innovation, theme of relationship.
14: That's a Theme, just human ideas, you know, is a theme. But the difference that a motive is now a repetition of certain patterns, ideas, images to reinforce the thing. So a motive is now, when you repeat it, a recurring pattern. So when we are doing an exegesis of scripture, as we are learning, we now begin to see a recurring pattern. That recurring pattern is where the New Testament writer draws his fulfillment of the Old Testament from. There's a recurring pattern. Now look at Pharaoh killed the firstborn. Herod killed the male children, two years down, right? So that is a recurring pattern. Now a pattern is persecution, but there is now a particular repetition. Authorities against children are trying to oppress and stop a redemptive act. Oh, Israel is multiplying. Let's stop them killing their children, the male children.
15: A savior is born, a king here, where, you know. So a motif is a recurring pattern or a recurring idea of that thing that you can see. So the New Testament writer definitely uses the motif to come to the conclusion, to say that it might be fulfilled. Look at Jesus applying Aithophel to Judas. The writer or the speaker who is David was not talking about ethophel in Psalm 41. Sorry, he was not talking about Judas. He didn't even know Judas. And there was no way he could have foreseen a Judas betraying Jesus. I keep saying it that if he knew Judas and he mentioned him and they thought that this is Judas, it might be obvious to everybody among the disciples.
16: But the point is that a Judas and an Aithophel are enemies, betrayers that you will not see readily, obviously, but they will be frolicking and courting with the king till they backstab him. So that is a theme. Betrayal. But a recurring theme close to the king gives him advice, is inner corcos. So when Peter said, this is spoken by David, the Holy Ghost, by the mouth of David, concerning them that took Jesus, that is not an interpretation. That is an application. But is it fulfillment? Yes. So he said, we must not equate fulfillment with interpretation. He interpretation comes before fulfillment. Fulfillment does not have to be exactly what the author said, but it's a connection. We're able to apply it. So we apply Jewish prophecy, Day of Pentecost. Not because Jews spoke about day of Pentecost.