1: So when somebody will tell you that, no, no, I don't like all these Greek and Hebrew things, let's use Bible translation. They are just ignorant of what they are saying because everybody is actually still translating. But it's obvious that the English translations, wittingly, unwittingly, unknowingly have taken away the substance of what is being said by using, shall I say, these illustrations breathing. You know, as much as, like I said, it's not their intention, but it has made us almost feel like maybe this is just an action, but that is actually the Holy Spirit. When we say wind breath, that is the Holy Spirit, that is the Spirit of God. And this is just one of the few instances. There are quite a number that are there in the Old Testament text.
2: So when Paul says all scripture is given by inspiration of God, that word theonistus is codified to bring out so much of the word work of the Spirit within the text of the Old Testament. All right, So I think we've crossed who gave the law, right? Have we? We've crossed who gave the law. Was this Moses, was it? We've crossed all that. We must learn to read the Old Testament, the New Testament church, obviously they were taught how to read the Old Testament. I know this is not a great salvation teaching, but I would want to delve a bit into some of the things we studied there. How did we, how did the Old Testament fellow, how did he get saved? You know, how. How did he get saved?
3: So what we do sometimes is we just revise the scriptures and we go back to this approach that God was always talking to them about Jesus, which is you will find in the text that Jesus was going to come, so he prepared them. So if you believe the needs and all that, while that may not be an error because eventually it all consummates to Jesus, but it is very incomplete. So I will call them John 3:16 moments. You know, John 3:16 is very relevant for us. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, even though that's a statement made before the cross, whosoever believes in him should not perish, but has everlasting life. We have Mark 16:15, go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believes on his baptized shall be saved.
4: He that believes not shall be damned. So we have that clear, believes he that believes. So we can call it the John 3:16 moment. Okay, so where do we find John 3:16 moments in the Old Testament? Where is that moment? We mustn't try to look for where God spoke to them about Jesus dying on the cross because you won't find it. It's. Where is that moment? Where is that unifier? Look at one scenario, look at Joshua two. And if we are trying to, let me put it this way, if we Are trying to equate getting saved in the New Testament with the Old Testament who know who was saved because they differ. They will converge eventually, but they differ. Look at Joshua 2 again. Now this is when Joshua met Rahab the Arlot. Now look at what she said to Joshua. Verse 9.
5: She said to the men, sorry, not Joshua, I know that the Lord had given you the land. Notice that these people were not already on the land. Say, I know the Lord had given you the land and that your terror is fell upon us. And all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you. Look at verse 10. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt. And what you did to the two kings of the Amorites that were on the other side, Jordan, Sihon and Og, who you utterly destroyed. As soon as we heard these things, our heart did melt. Neither did there remain any more courage than the man because of you. For the Lord your God is God in heaven above and in the earth beneath.
6: This is John 3:16. You won't see Jesus died for your sins. No. That's the John 3:16 moment. God rescued Israel and gave them a land. What else? What other John 3:16 moments you have? Don't forget that Hebrews 4 says that the Gospel was preached also unto them as well as unto us. Hebrews 4:2. But the gospel preached to them is not that Jesus died on the cross. No. Look at Genesis chapter 15. And verse 6. And he that Abraham believed in the Lord, and he counted it to him for righteousness. He believed in the Lord, he cast it to him for righteousness. Now what did he believe? What did Abraham believe? Verse 5. Look now toward heaven and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them. And he said to him, so shall thy seed be. Now look at Romans 4.
7: Abraham didn't get any information about Jesus dying for our sins. Did you also notice that what is the gospel moment in all the generations is what God had done or was doing. Is not in future what God will do? No. Romans 4. Okay. Look at how Paul talks about it. He says in it's of faith, verse 6. That it might be by grace to the end, that the promise might be sure to all the seed, and not to that only which is of the law, but also that which is of the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all.
8: As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations before him whom he believed, even God, who quickened the dead and calleth those things which Be not as though they were who against hope, believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations. According to that which was spoken. So shall thy seed be. And being not weak in faith, he considered his own body now dead when he was about a hundred years old. Neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb is staggered out at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God and being fully persuaded that he was able, he had promised he was able also to perform, therefore to put him for righteousness. Look at how Paul paints that scenario.
9: So you will be a father of many nations to Abraham is a John 3:16 moment. It was not written for his sake alone. Notice that for his sake alone. You know, we said that this means that it's not an interpretation per se, okay? It's an application, what we call a significance. It now says for his sake alone that it was imputed to him. But for us also to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead. Now, is that what Israel Abraham believed? Huh? Is that what is. Is that what he said? Abraham believed? No. Abraham believed that God would make him a father of many nations. And then he quickened his body that was now dead. Now Paul has made that connection to the resurrection of Jesus.
10: So Abraham's John 2016 moment was when he believed that he will be the father of many nations. It's not the cross, the grave and the resurrection. So look at Galatians 3. 8. And the Scripture foreseen that God will justify the eating through faith preached before the Gospel unto Abraham, saying, in these shall all the nations be blessed. Did you notice that the same thing read Romans 4, huh? Now, is that what we read in Genesis 15? Good. That's the gospel. That's the gospel. Did you also notice that in Hebrews 4? So the gospel has many events in it, but the culmination, call it the height of the events which sums up all the events, is that God raised Jesus from the dead. But you won't find that in every gospel account, because it had not yet happened.
11: You can see why the apostles, even though they were rebuked, but salvation was still theirs because Jesus was not yet raised from the dead. He wasn't dead. They had not seen it before. They had not heard it before. Of course they had seen Jonah. They've heard of Jonah. But he told them. But he rebuked them and gave them the same witness to tell the whole world of what has already happened. You cannot rebuke a man for unbelief of an event that is yet to happen, that he has not believed it. Now God has done this. Have you believed it so in Abraham he gave him his word. And when Abraham believed it was counted to him for righteousness, which is God putting things right. Hebrews 4. For unto us was the gospel preached. What was the gospel here?
12: Entering into his rest as well as of them. But the word preached did not profit them not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. John 3:16 moment is that God gave them the land. So the John 3:16 moments are several events of what God did to save preserve all through history within the Scriptures. So what will be salvation in the world of the Hebrew believer? The ancient Hebrew believer again is multifaceted now in a world largely they had a very strong spiritual context. Deromanes 6 and 3 will come to mind. Hear, therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it that it may be well with thee, that they may increase mightily as the Lord thy God, or thy fathers have promised thee in the land that flows with milk and honey.
13: Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord the Lord our God is one Lord. Now this is the gospel. Why? Because now there are men to choose. And in that choice there are men to choose to believe. The Lord our God is a card is the same. Which means is faith in God all right? Against other gods is the choice of Yahweh above other gods. So salvation was never predicated upon conduct. Never. It was never. This is about faith in one Lord and one God. It was never about conduct. It was to produce conduct. It should produce conduct because we have very sterling examples in the patriarchs of old. But salvation was never a case of God asking them to do something to be saved. No, no, no. It was a faith thing.
14: Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is one Lord. Thou shalt love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul and with all your might. Now look at Mark 12, how that was rendered when they asked Jesus the question. Mark 12, Verse 28, which is the first commandment of all. The Matthew 22:37 says, which is the greatest first of all the commandments is Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. The Lord our God is one Lord. Again, this is a big word. This is embedded in the concept of the Trinity. Unique Yahweh, a unique God above all gods. Of course, it comes with the fact that they are rescued from Egypt. A couple of things are in this Statement. But look at this.
15: Thou shalt love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, and with all your strength, which is the first commandment. And the word love, ahib means to esteem. That means there's a comparison there. To esteem above, above other gods. For example, this is a John 3:16 moment. Hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is one Lord. He's not referring to the death of Jesus on the cross. The death of Jesus on the cross. Right. What it does is that he gives a fulfillment to all the John 3:16 moments. It arrives what you can call an endpoint. This is the end result of everything. The rescue from Egypt, bringing the nations together. All those events now end up on God raising Jesus from the dead. So we must therefore learn how to make read the Old Testament.
16: There must be a very intelligent way. We must not try to connect the two testaments or the two books without knowing how. There must be a how to connecting the two books. Let's go back to a few things we said last week. We said in reading the Old Testament books, we must make the following observations when we are reading them. And we are going to read very weird things. You know, look at the way we would talk about smell. Breath is not the way they were talking about breath. We just saw it. There's a difference. So when you read those things from the Old Testament, we said you must find the grammatical context, the historical and cultural context. Look at the way we explain.