1: So I now said that, is it possible for you to have fellowship with God and not serve humanity? No. So don't separate the two, just distinguish it. You can't. Jesus said they asked him, what is the great commandment of the law? He said, thou shalt love your Lord your God with all your might and soul. In fact, the mark's rendering was more direct. Hear your Israel, the Lord your God is 1 Lord. Mark 12, 29, 30, 31. He said, Therefore thou shalt love the Lord your God. All you have might and souls. He said, the second is like Thee first one, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and yourself. He said upon these two. Now the two, are they the same? No. Are they connected? Yes. Can you have one without the other? No. Can you separate them? No. Can you distinguish them? Yes.
2: So there are things in Scripture, there are things that we can distinguish, but we cannot separate. Heaven and earth can be distinguished, but we can't separate them. This is the reason why some rapture theologians have problems. Some of us. I used to be a rapture person too, you know, until quite some years ago, that it just didn't have scripture that believers will believe this world. Jesus will come back. And a theory that is not found in Scripture. And in fact, the Old Testament is totally silent on it. There's nothing there about it. So. And that's because Paul's parable of the Greco Roman, you know, welcome of the noble, where you have the agelion, was now misapplied. They now took Paul's weagelion, which is in a totally Greco Roman way world applied it to Jesus's Old Testament explanation of judgment of Israel.
3: And they put it together. Jesus has gone. He has gone to a far place called heaven, is coming back. Because there was now a separation rather than a distinguishing. It's like saying I said the heart is in the body is in the heart. Imagine a body without a heart can't exist, right? But you can't say the body is the heart, but the heart is the body. The body, but the heart is not the body. But the heart makes the body function. You cannot separate them. You separate them, you are dead, but you can only make a distinction. So the heaven and the earth, they function together. They are not the same, but they can't be separated. You can distinguish them. And the idea of separating it is why we have people think that believers, they go, Jesus died and went.
4: And though he had very clear words, lo, I am with you. It was clear. When two or three are gathered, I'm there. So I told him, is it literal or figurative? He says it's literal. So if somebody is literally with you, why are you expecting him to return? Well, he return in his glory, he can't return. Your grammar is wrong. Somebody who is with you cannot be returning. You can say that he's been revealed, we can agree on that one. You can say there's a manifestation, we can agree on that one. But that he has gone to come back. He's not in the Bible. So there's a distinguishing, but there should not be a separation. So Scriptures mean that heaven and Earth should be read together. Now, you know, we said that the concept of inspired by God shows dependent connection.
5: Again, is heaven and earth separated? No. Distinguished? Yes. So the Bible itself is that heaven and earth, which means we will take things from the earth to explain supernatural things. So the Bible in my hands is heaven and earth. Heaven and earth. I didn't say heaven on earth because the word is heaven and earth. So which means I will see its human origin. Right. I will see its supernatural origin, I will see its physical origin, I will see its non physical origin. Do I need both? Yes. Is one outweighing the other? Of course. If God inspired men, sure. But you cannot do without the other. So heaven and earth is the context of the Bible itself. Self, you are reading a heavenly narrative using a earthly medium. You are also reading an earthly story with an heavenly inspiration.
6: So the spiritual context of Scripture is one of the key context. We have said there is a grammatical one, there's historical context, there's intertextual context, but it's a critical spiritual world context that cannot be taken away. Now, this leads us to a crucial thing we're going to look at quickly. So now let me say something else here. Another thing that I must mention, and it's key to how we read Scripture, is how we feel that whenever the supernatural, the orders of the Bible sat down and their leaders, the writers, that they were never talking to them. Let me tell you what I mean. It is the main missing link in how we talk about cryptocensicity of Scripture. What do I mean? Imagine if I want to talk to you now, I'm talking to you as a church, but I'm not talking to you.
7: Then I now hold you responsible for not believing. So every time they stood up, you are talking about Jesus. Jesus came a thousand years after then. You now say that these guys did not believe. Meanwhile you are not talking to them because none of them will leave a thousand years after who is following what I'm saying here? So we almost take away that the audience were being talked to. Meanwhile, it's a totally missing link in scripture because it's the other way around that the writers were not talking to you and I. If they were not talking to you and I, then this therefore becomes incongruent or incoherent to think that they were speaking about the future. The future will mean that their audience was not immediate who's following what I'm saying here?
8: So we should not think that they were some daft people who just couldn't get what was being talked about just God is talking to Abraham, but actually talking about Jesus coming on the cross. That connection has been totally misapplied now, which means. Now let me just read this note. We must first of all agree that the Scriptures were not written to us. If they were not written to us, then our understanding of prophecy has to change. Prophecy therefore, might not even be the intention of the writer. Just like David spoke about aithophel, but it had an unintended consequence with Judas, it now became prophecy with Judas. But it was not prophecy when David was saying wasn't a prediction. When David said, my God, why have you forsaken me? He wasn't talking about the death of Jesus, was talking about his own present situation.
9: However, by an unintended consequence, which is the supernatural context of it therefore applies to Jesus on the cross. Now, it appears like were thinking this is only restricted to the Old Testament. No, it's not. It's applicable to the New Testament book itself. They also were not writing to us. I think of all things. We are very arrogant. We. We need to step down from our arrogance and be humble to think that whoever these writers were writing to were simply daft, wasn't talking to them. They couldn't understand it. So it had to be us. Do we agree that whatever Moses said made sense to his audience? Yes. Whatever Isaiah said made sense to his audience? Yes. Whatever Jesus sent message to those things? Yes. Whatever Paul said also made sense to his audience? Yes. Now look at the book of Revelation.
10: The book of Revelation obviously is a compendium of certain things that happened after all the apostles had died. Only remain John. And let me give you a simple historical context of it. There were churches in Asia. It opens with a letter to the churches in Asia, or letters, seven of them. And those churches were literal churches. Those churches don't exist. Again, when those letters were written to those churches understood what was being said. They it had nothing to do with antichrist that shows up in Saddam Hussein. They didn't have Saddam Hussein in mind. So if we can make that connection, we will not fall into the error of. Maybe I should go back to our word reductionism. I try not to use it, but I've not used it.
11: You know, when we oversimplify something that looks complex, we don't want to take the long route of finding out what the author really meant. So we have superimposed 2024 on a book that did not even foresee 2024. So there are several letters. Why those churches were planted by Paul. Let's look at it. Those churches were planted by Paul. They were in Asia. Book of Revelation. It's one of the books I've always been to talk about. He says revelation of Jesus Christ showed his servants of things which shortly must come to pass. It must come to pass. It was clear by his angel unto his servant John. Then he talked about. Look at verse four, John to the seven churches which are in Asia. So is the book of relation written to us? No, the churches are no more.
12: Now look at those churches in verse 11 and the alpha, the oblige, the first and the last, who thou seest writes in the book and said to the seven churches which are in Asia, unto Ephesus, Seymour, Pegamus Theatre, Sardis, Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea. So historically debatable is that Paul had been killed. Okay. Many historical facts was beheaded. So Paul couldn't write to the churches anymore. Seemed like leadership had been lost. We can't find much of history of what must have happened to Timothy. So what's going on? The letters were to warn them. Warn them. Not about the loss of individual salvation. It was a loss of ministry. We hardly make that distinction. Moses obviously lost his ministry. I know this ministry be tough. But Moses did not take the children of Israel to the promised land. But Moses did not lose his salvation.
13: Those are key things that mustn't be lost. Now, the churches were judged together. If the churches were judged together, it therefore means that the letters are not dealing with salvation. Because you don't group people in salvation. It's whosoever calls upon. So that cannot be a grouping of people. No. So the seven churches therefore did not think that what was being said was going to happen in 2025 at all. They didn't think that way. Whatever was being said was clear to them. About the time that this was said, the temple was still in place. That is why a new temple was prophesied. About the time that this was said, they had the Roman Empire and the use of dragons, sea animals from the Old Testament is clear. Talking about kingdoms. They knew what the valley was talking about.
14: So it becomes insulting for us to think that no, it wasn't to them. It was to us. When it is clear that whatever is in the book of Revelation was applicable to the churches. Who's following what I'm saying here? Are you following what I'm saying here? Come on. Are you here? So that context is missing that. Did the audience think that they would see the fulfillment? Because eventually those churches lost their planting. Eventually. The author did not have us in mind, whether it's old or New Testament. The one who had us in mind is God's spirit by fulfillment. The way we fulfill Scripture is to sit where they sat and stand where they stood. It is not. Not that they were directly significant to us by direct instruction. So all those things contribute to why we misapply Scripture.
15: Okay, I was talking about the image of God. I forgot that to mention that now God will work with our ignorance. I've always said that he will. And I'll show you something shortly. He will do that. And I explained that a man used the scripture. I was talking to someone. Yeah, I was talking about slave trade and said that when people began slave trade, they used the Bible, of course, by different translations, interpreting where slave trade was going to end. Abraham Lincoln, who is. Because people, some people say it was not. That was just hypocritical. It was just opportunistic. Whatever it was. The scriptures that he also used, and he said man is in the image of God and then all men are born equal and all that. And you know, and yeah, God was glorified in that.
16: And this lends to what we have been saying, that the Scriptures must be properly interpreted. You cannot, you can easily misunderstand, mislead people. Look at how book of relation has been used to create antichrist story. And the word Antichrist is funny that in first and second John mentions Antichrist, but in Revelation he did not. It's funny that he didn't. So you wonder why that he didn't. He uses antichrist only in 1 John, 1st John 2, 8, 18, twice 1st John 2, 22, 1st John 4:3 and 2nd John 17. And 1st John 2:18. I mentioned that the word Antichrist does not occur at all either in the four Gospels or in the book of Revelation. But somehow we have managed to match everything together.
17: As though John that used Antichrist in one and second John just forgot to use that phrase in the book of Revelation. Or somehow those who compiled scripture and did the translations. No, that's not the word. Who were the writers? Biblical writers forgot to call the persecution. Sorry, forgot to include antichrist in Matthew 24. So what we have done is reductionism. Just put everything together and just let it say the same thing. No, stick with the text. Are you here? And you know when things like that have been believed for a while, if I recall in the 90s when I believe broached this issue, I said, look, this text, the one that first got me thinking was John 14 in my father's house, there are many mansions. I could never have thought he wasn't talking about when you die.
18: I mean, the text was so this is, oh, now I look at the word. And then you read in the not just the content of John 14 and you shouldn't have said, I'll come again and see myself wherever you be also. And then you read on and say, he did fulfill that in John 20. And then you say, this doesn't look like what I was thinking. And you know, I'll come again. Every day I'll come again and receive it to myself. And where I am you'll be also. They talk about, I'll give you the Spirit. Then he came again. Just that John shows you he came again. And then you say, where did I now get the idea that it is what he said in John 14:16 is the same thing as Matthew 24.