1: Remove the concept of heaven as to a distant planet where God is waiting for us, where we die. No, it means the supernatural world. That's what it is. The natural and the supernatural, and they're in the same space. So we can say the supernatural is the operating room. The natural is where we have the manifestation. So now the question is, how will God do it? So one, it's clear there will be a new heaven and a new earth. It's clear that God said that and is in Isaiah we see the revelation. Jesus also said heaven and earth will pass away. Now, as a subtext, don't forget we have done in this series that the temple is also called Heaven Earth. So all of that explanation will work in how we read this.
2: So the question is how now this now will produce a couple of thinking patterns. If, for example, I assume that heaven is a distance out of the earth, so that when people die, they go there and we all believers, I mean, if you're a believer in scripture, you will look forward to a promise of a new heaven and earth. That's basic, right? So now the question is that how do we see heaven? Will let us know how this will happen. If I see heaven as when we die, we go there, then my idea will now be this, that the Rapture theory comes into place. Please. People will die, go to heaven, then wait there. Then Jesus will now come, then take away the rest who are not dead yet and take them to heaven. Then destroy the earth.
3: When the earth is destroyed, the people who are in that heaven, where the dead go, will now come back to that earth. I don't know. I've heard that before. Okay, so let's take it again. People die. Believers as they are dying go to glory, they go to heaven, they wait. Those on earth will also be without waiting for Jesus who will come. They quickly take those ones away. Depending on what you have 70 weeks, seven years. I mean, if all comes into one system, so you go to the heavens and then you wait, then God now bombs the earth. Or there's World War four. No, three. Now we've had two, three. And so we keep expecting that. And what has happened is that there's a mishmash, Matthew 24 linked with Matthew 25, Paul's 4 Thessalonians 5. So everything is and antichrist.
4: So we just form. What do you call this thing again in literature you just form, no cascade, different characters that they don't fit into the plot. It's like we're shooting one movie recently that I'm part of. And so they were in that particular place. The location there was now a construction going on. So somehow we delayed a scene and we're acting something a movie that the time had to do with the 1950s. So we had to use the location. In fact, we had to repaint. Actually make believe. Seriously, we had to repaint all that. So something happened that there was not a particular symbol we're trying to use to make it look ancient. So we had done it the week before shot. The scene was cool. So the people that came for the construction just removed that particular symbol.
5: Now my own thinking was, oh, that what we need to do. Then the director told me, he said, no, we are going to have a continuous issue. So that is called a part of movie. That is called continuity. That is where you are able to connect things together. Okay, this has to be here. This has to continue to be like this. If you are going to retain this part of the plot, you have to keep using this. Now, this rupture theory doesn't have continuity. I'll tell you what I mean. The promise we read in Scripture is new heaven and new earth. So if the earth will be destroyed because it's not perfect and God wants something, you destroy it, but takes us to the heavens. The scripture did not say new earth. It's a new heaven and earth.
6: So it will have to mean that we'll have to go to somewhere else apart from that heaven. Because that heaven also needs a new model. Please follow what I'm saying here. So the problem with the Raptor story is that it doesn't talk about that heaven too. It talks about the earth. But paramount, it is heaven and earth. So there is no continuity there. Anytime you talk about destruction of the earth, you must always include what heaven. Because if it is to lead to a renewal, it must include heaven. So Many will read 2 Peter 3 as a replacement traditionally Matthew 5:18 heaven and then to pass away Mark 13:31 and Luke 16:17 1 John 2:17. And they refer to it as and let me tell you why that works.
7: People that subscribe to that have the ex nihilo concept of Genesis 1:2 that God called out the earth from nothing ex nihilo. So their bara theology is that something came out of nothing. But the moment we interpret Genesis 1, verse 1 to 2 and see that bara there happened when there was an existing material. So the ex nihilo is of our mind. Let me see how to get what I'm talking about. Is it clear? There must be consistency. In Genesis 1:2 there was the earth. It was just without form and void. So if we take the X the Hilo thinking out, therefore the replacement theory will not stand because the use of create. I will create Jerusalem. Jerusalem did not come out of nothing. Jerusalem came out of an existing nation. Create me a new heart.
8: Psalm 51:10 I will create the word bara in the Old Testament audience mind is to put something in shape, create this one for him, create that one. It's not ex nihilo out of nothing. It's usually from an existing material. Who's following what I'm saying here? Good. So the creation of heaven and earth cannot be a replacement. So we go back to ex nihilo where there's nothing. Don't forget, if heaven is going to be inclusive, that means that pay good attention here. That means that where the dead saints are too will also be reduced to nothing. Where would they now go? So there is no continuity in that thinking. What will make sense is for us to look into the scriptures and rather use the word new Shadash as a renewal, a repair.
9: And we have sufficient evidence in the fact that the first time we're going to have that chaotic situation returned to the earth was in Noah's time. He said, my spirit shall no longer serve with man. This is the for his flesh and 120 years. Then he said, it will destroy the earth. Now that looks like to destroy will look like there will be an ex nihilo. Ex nihilo simply means from nothing. Genesis 6, verse 5 Genesis 6:7 I will destroy my womb I've created for both man, beasts, creeping things and fathers of the air for bread and mid man. And Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord and he was a perfect man. Now follow this verse 11. The earth was corrupt before God, filled with violence.
10: God looked upon the earth and behold was corrupt for all the flesh and corrupted his wife upon the earth. Then Noah now built a temple. No doubt Noah's time was a reset. Genesis 8, Genesis 7. First you see that. You see echoes of Genesis 1 there the flood was 40 days upon the earth. The waters increased and burned the ark in it. Above the earth the waters prevailed, they were great upon the earth. The ark was upon the face of the waters. So there's a Repeat of Genesis 1:2,4. The waters prevailed upon the earth, and all the high heels were under the old heaven were covered. So at least these resets we still have something on ground. Genesis chapter 8, verse 4.
11: The ark rested in the seventh month and the seventeenth day of the month upon the mountains of Ararat then can go on and on. Now look at Genesis 8:21. I will not again cause the ground anymore for man's sake, for the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth. Neither will I again smite any more anything living as I have done. Verse 1, chapter 9. And God blessed Noah and said, and his sons and said to them, be fruitful, multiply and replenish the earth, new heavens and earth. Is it a replacement or a renewal? A renewal. In fact, if we read further, in verse nine, I will establish my covenant with you, and with your seed every creature. Verse 11. I will establish my covenant with you. Neither shall all flesh be cut off anymore by the waters of the flood.
12: Neither shall there anymore be flooded to destroy the earth. This is the token of my covenant. Basically, there will be no total destruction of the earth. The earth would never return to ex nihilo. Does it make sense? So what the earth will be with times and seasons, right? Which will be renewals. So the earth will be going through phases of renewal seasons. Is it making sense? Is it making sense? Now, if this is understood, then the Rapture theory has to be. Do I believe in the Rapture? Oh, I do. But it's not a return of Jesus. Okay, that's clear enough. Do I believe in new heaven? Of course, yeah, I do. But it is not a replacement, because that is not what scripture teaches. It is a renewal. So in a renewal, in a replacement, we take away everything.
13: In a renewal, there is a continuity, it is repaired. Given a new form, some things will help us to understand it. Now let me ask you, the physical body of the believer, is it destroyed or renewed? Huh? Is renewed. And it's a creation. So what we have, rather we'll pick it up from next week, is a renovation, not a replacement. So when Paul talks about new creation from the verbiage of the Old Testament is a renewed creation, where God walks with what's available. And makes out what he desires. So the new heavens and the earth will be the natural and the supernatural. If we get that clear as a code of the language of the natural and the supernatural, then our understanding will be broader. We take it off from here next week. Do you have any questions before we do?
14: Transcribed by https://fireflies.ai/