And we trust that in this service again


the eyes of our understanding will be


enlightened. We will again come to a


complete thorough understanding of the


subject of salvation. Lord we declare


again that the things that ought to be


said in this service will be said. The


things that ought to be done will be


done to the praise and glory of your


name. Lord, we open our hearts this


morning for all


transes, for revelations,


and for your power to work wonders in


our midst. We declare in faith our needs


are met by the power of your spirit. In


the name of Jesus.


Amen.


Amen. Have your seats this


morning. Glory, glory, glory, glory,


glory, glory. Psalm 74 and verse 12, a


text we have been reading. For God is my


king of old, walking salvation in the


midst of the earth. God is my king of


old walking salvation in the midst of


the earth. What is God walking on the


earth? Salvation. That's what God is


walking on the earth. That's what God is


doing. His spirit is actively working.


saving men, redeeming men, justifying


men, sanctifying men, purifying men,


glorifying men. That's what the spirit


of God is doing across the nations of


the earth. Revelations chapter 5, 9 and


10, we see that context. From every


tribe, from every tongue, from every


kindred, he has made us kings and


priests unto our God. Hallelujah. What


God is actively doing is calling the


nations back to himself. We call


it, we sing this song every time, re


what? Reclaiming the nations. We are


reclaiming the nations for the Lord.


Why? Because the earth is the Lord's end


of fullness thereof. The word does not


belong to Satan. The word does not


belong to sin. The word does not belong


to death. The word belongs to the Lord.


Hallelujah.


In Matthew 28 and verse 18, Jesus came


and spake unto them, saying, "All power,


all authority in heaven and earth is


given unto me. All power, all authority


is given unto me in heaven and on earth.


All power, all authority." So now he has


he has all the power to bring people in.


And like we said the uh president of


America has the power to say you are now


a citizen of the nation. God has all


power. He says now I'm bringing people


in. He has inaugurated his kingdom and


he says go tell people to come in. The


way is open. The way is open to


everybody. It's a highway of salvation


but yet it's a narrow way. It's a


highway but yes there's a narrow. Why


that narrow is that Jesus said I am the


way, the truth and the life. And that


offends religion. That offends


everybody. Once we begin to proclaim


that faith alone, faith in Christ is


sufficient for salvation. It affects the


religious mind. It affects uh the


viewpoint, the ideological positions of


different people. It affects them


because how can Jesus alone be the way?


But no other religious leader said they


were the way. Jesus said, "I am the way,


the truth, and the life. No one cometh


unto the father but by me." Religion


says, "No one goeth to heaven but by


me." But the emphasis is that God has


made his home with us. Amen. No one


cometh unto the father. No one has the


father dwelling in him and he in the


father except through me. That's what


Jesus was saying emphatically. Uh Jesus


had a great exemplary life. But yet what


Jesus came to bring to us is not a


morality. Morality exists in every form


of religion and worship. Morality


exists. It's possible to be moral


without the Lord. And so what the gospel


teaches is not morality. And so I gave


you seven, eight things that salvation


is not throughout this series. And I


itemize them again on Wednesday just in


case you haven't picked them throughout


the series just to make teaching a bit


more easy. Salvation has been moralized


and salvation shouldn't be moralized.


Morality is good, but morality is not


the gospel. You can behave well and not


have God as your God. You can behave


well and not have God as your Lord and


as your father and him you worship and


him in you. It's possible. Amen. And the


emphasis we said is there uh good


behavior in salvation? Yes, we were


created unto good works. But morality in


itself denies it's a ideological


position that says I I I strive to be


good. I strive to behave well on my own.


That is not what the gospel teaches. We


do not strive to do well, behave well,


be good on our own. No, we if you since


you live in the spirit, walk in the


spirit and you will not fulfill the lust


of the flesh. My ability to produce


righteousness. My ability to walk in


holiness is not by my power is by the


Lord walking in and through me. Because


again, how do I define what is good and


what is evil? If I use only the


knowledge I have of what is called


proper ethics within


society. Amen. Morality and ethics


becomes the foundation of the fabric by


which society is upheld. And that's why


there are rules and regulation in every


country. However, what defines for us


what is right. It's not that the


government says okay we want the you can


now identify as a cat. So that means


it's okay. No no no no no no. That's


morality for us is not u I don't want to


use the word for morality generally


deals with all of those set of


principles rules. I'm behaving where I


don't do what is wrong. And I say that


is how I am saved. That's why I get to


live with God forever and ever. That is


why I get to have God dwelling in


me. That's where that's why I am a new


creation. That's why I got I get to live


in God's new creation. That's why I get


to be raised to life in God's new heaven


and earth. No, that is not salvation.


Morality is not salvation. We have


emphasized that. For by grace are you


saved through faith, not of works, lest


any man should boast. Ephesians 2 and


verse 8. By grace are you saved. Romans


chapter 4. It is of grace that it might


be by faith. To the end that the promise


might be sure. To the end that the


promise might be sure. The promise is by


faith. What can we say our father


Abraham have found? Romans chapter 4. If


it were by works, he had where off to


glory. But not before God. Not before


God. If he was going to boast, he's not


before God. The same way Paul concludes


say so we conclude that a man is not


justified by the works of the law. We


conclude join the apostles to


conclude. We conclude that a man is not


justified by works. So that means I can


behave anyhow. No, that does not mean we


can behave anyhow. And that does not


mean behaving anyhow. It simply means I


am not saved by my good behavior. Good


behavior is okay but good behavior is


not what saves me. It is good behavior


is not the savior. Jesus Christ is the


savior and faith alone is enough to save


me. And that offends the phisea mind.


That affects the people who killed Jesus


on the cross because it offends religion


to say faith alone is enough. No no no


no. But Jesus said to them, "Except your


righteousness exceed that of the


Pharisees and the


Sadducees." Except your righteousness


exceed. And that is faith. The only


righteousness that exceed that of the


scribes and the


Pharisees.


Hallelujah. Amen. So there's an


emphasis. Salvation is not


self-righteousness or behavioral


modification. Salvation is not a reward


for good deeds. Amen. Neither is it a


license to sin, but morality is not


salvation. Faith alone is what saves us.


Faith alone and faith in what? Faith in


what Jesus has done. And any man


anywhere, any man, woman


anywhere, inspite, despite what race,


what tribe, what religion they were born


into or what uh ideology they hold on to


and they proclaim that what Jesus did on


the cross is enough for their salvation.


They are saved. They may never enter


into a church once. They may never read


their Bible once. They may never


congregate with the saint which is going


to mean that they they are they they


were basically fruitless on the earth in


their living. However, faith alone is


enough. So last week Sunday I read a


text for you from Luke chapter 4, the


story of the widow of Zarapath and Neon


and we see faith alone is enough. Neon


will never attend the Bible study. Neon


will never visit the temple in


Jerusalem. But non has already affirmed


that Yahweh alone is God for me and I


will worship no other god but Yahweh.


Allegiance. Allegiance. Believing


loyalty. That's enough for salvation.


Believing loyalty. We emphasize that


faith in Christ is enough for salvation.


And that gets people offended that trust


in their human effort and get some other


persons offended who hear voices and


they say, "Oh, what they are telling


people is that they can misbehave."


No, we're not telling people to


misbehave. We now live and walk by the


spirit. And so we did those correction.


We emphasize that and I did emphasize a


lot of those things about proper


behavior. So you can quote me out of


context. Amen. Hallelujah.


So when we moralize the problem that sin


is merely a violation of a code, sin is


merely a violation of a code. So is a a


failure for moral examination then again


because to explain that kind of


salvation you now bring Jesus in because


Jesus is always brought into all of the


concept. So when salvation becomes a


violation of a moral code or a violation


or a failure of moral examination we now


have Jesus comes into the picture which


is not true biblical study. Jesus comes


into the picture now he has now kept my


moral examination for The moment that I


failed, he has kept it for me. So now I


get to go to heaven or now I get to be


saved or whatsoever is explained that


that is not the gospel. It is not a


failure for moral examination that was


presented to man in the beginning. No,


it was not a moral examination that was


presented. Amen.


Faith alone, belief. Just like say if


you eat my flesh and drink my blood,


what does that mean? when they were


saying is it a vampire movie or


something say eat my flesh drink my


blood is to believe have faith alone


faith alone is what saves hallelujah


faith alone is what saves can can we


just emphasize that a bit every one of


us together as a mass choir faith alone


faith alone is enough is enough for my


salvation for my salvation yeah be bold


about that don't be a coward about that


position because you don't want people


to feel somehow let them feel any how


they want to feel. You are not more


righteous than the Lord. You are not my


savior. That's what the scripture


teaches. Now does that mean my behavior


is not important. You are mad. Paul


emphasized that in Romans says some say


that when we teach this that we are


telling people to leave anyhow. It says


their own damnation is sure and they


know they hear. Nobody said


that. Hallelujah.


Nobody said that. Nobody said


that. Nobody said that. Hallelujah.


That's Romans 3 and verse uh 8. And not


rather as we have been slanderously


reported and as some affirmed that we


say let us do evil that good may come.


We say whose damnation is just. Don't


bother yourself with such people. You


will waste your time arguing with such


persons because they are going to always


hear anything they want. They can as


well talk to the stars for all we care.


We do not bother ourel with such people


because you just uh Paul called them uh


foolish questions. Foolish questions


with gender strife. That's what those


people are for. They not really learning


hearing anything. All they are hearing


is are you now saying when you just even


look at them not even having to go so


far with the gifts of word of knowledge


or the gift of the sign of spirit you


can tell that they are a shabby mess.


You can tell how much they are


disgruntled, evil, wicked, sinful


persons pretending around people that I


don't do anything wrong. Just a little


Xray with the revelatory gifts and you


already like oh boy and this is the


person that is as history have always


proven a man said how could people do


this kind of never. Then all of a sudden


eight months later there was a scandal


on the news. It was the man verified but


he always history has proven that


Pharisees, Sadducees, people who have


those kind of


positions


who carry themselves to be good than


good, better than the best. People who


who portray themsel like that and


portray human strength above everything.


Are not merciful or gracious. Are not


even great neighbors to


have. are not fit for society by


themselves because people avo


uh there's a name they


call in different cultures but leave


that alone I I mean uh people people


some people use perfection some people


use different phrases for such persons


but that's not the point salvation has


been moralized and that was one of the


things that affected the proper concept


of salvation so is Is there good


behavior? Uh is there good works? We


read on Wednesday his title says it is


necessary to maintain good works for


necessary uses. That means God can now


use my good conduct to minister to


somebody else. But my good conduct is


not what saved me. But my good conduct


can now be a form of ministry, a form of


ministration. And that's why people say,


"Ah, if that pastor fell, hey, yeah, but


that's stupid. You you didn't put your


faith on a pastor or a man looking onto


Jesus the author and finisher of our


faith. No man is your God. No man is


every man is your example to the degree


that they follow the Lord. And when they


are not following the Lord, take your


eyes off them. Put your eye on the Lord


and stop doing. Yeah. And I thought and


I thought thought for yourself. Live


your own life. Amen. Because they are


just like you. The only difference


between a pastor and a member is


responsibility. You are tempted the same


way. In fact, more tempted than you. by


the way. Amen. More tempted than you.


That's why a man shouldn't desire to be


a leader on his own because he will have


more issues and more trouble. His life


is open to public scrutiny of assort.


Amen. Hallelujah. Salvation is not like


that. God is not grading us on a c. God


is not, oh, what have you done? What


have you not done? What are you doing?


What are you about to do? You dare not


mess up? I'm holding a cane. We got uh


in America it's called helicopter


parent. It's always open. My eyes are


over you. I'm ready to strike. I'm ready


to strike. I'm ready to strike. No, that


is not salvation. That's not how we get


saved. That's not how we live now that


we are saved.


Amen.


So, we must correct that position.


My good works, my conduct is important.


But where does my good work come from?


My good works is not powered by


morality. My good works is powered not


by me saying I know the good and I can


avoid the evil. No, my good works is


powered by a righteousness


consciousness. By the fact that I tell


myself, Lord, help me. Lord, help me. So


I do not even put my eye on how many


have I gotten right today. So I failed.


So, oh, 60 over 100, 70 over 100. No,


no, no, no, no, no. That's not how to


live as a Christian. You focus on loving


the Lord Jesus, loving your neighbor.


That's enough. And you will notice your


behaviors will get better. If you even


going to grade it, your behaviors will


get better over time. Salvation is not


gotten by human effort. That which is


not earned by uh good merits cannot be


lost by bad merit. That which is not


earned by good works can't be lost by


bad works. Amen. It offends people. But


that is the grace of God. And that's why


the gospel is cander is scandalous. And


they say no this is foolish. No no you


can't tell me that. But that's the


beauty of the gospel. Amen. There is


forgiveness of sins with our God that he


may be feared. We worship him because


he's too good. He's too merciful and


gracious. And that is not a license to


sin. No scripture presented like that.


That is a freedom to have expression, a


freedom to finally live the way God


intended us to live. Not to be carefree


or


careless, but to be empowered by God's


spirit. Did you get it?


Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen.


Yeah. Men everywhere, men and women


waking up to the reality that the gospel


is free. That the message of the cross


is enough. That faith alone is enough


for salvation. Men and women empowered


with the truth of the gospel. Oh, boldly


declaring, boldly announcing, boldly


telling people that Jesus is Lord. Jesus


loves them. That power, that grace, that


enablement is communicated through our


lips. And many hear it and they turn to


the Lord because they have seen in us a


great example, a great example of


forgiveness, a great example of mercy, a


great example of tolerance. And God in


his mercy has fashioned us, has made us


a people of love, a people of grace, a


people of forgiveness. And now we tell


the good story. We go about telling men,


enabling them, telling them this is what


God did for you in Christ Jesus. And


many turn to the Lord. And as they turn


to the Lord, we remain an example of


love, of grace, and of forgiveness to


them. That's what God has made up.


That's what God has made us. And as we


continue to preach that and declare


that, we realize that, oh boy, we have


power, power, power, power, power to put


our acts together, power to live right,


power to be such a wonderful blessing to


our society and our society loves us,


welcomes us, pray to have more persons


like us because that's how God has


redeemed us to be light and short of the


Hallelujah.


Amen.


Amen. Now, that can as well be taken as


a psalm. Yeah. I feel there's a a a


psalm welling up in my spirit of assort


like uh two words just coming again. Be


light. Be the light. Be the light. Three


words. Be the light. But be light. Be


the light. Be the light. Yeah. A psalm.


Be the light. Walk in the light. For you


know you are full of God's spirit. A man


born of the light. There is clearness


where there is the light. There is


clearness where there is the light.


There is no darkness where there is the


light. But you are the light. You walk


in the light. So be the light. Shine as


the light. Live as the light. Oh, you're


in Zion. In Zion, a place full of light.


Out of Zion. The perfection of beauty.


God has shine forth. Leave as the light.


Shine as the light. For we live as the


light. For we shine as the light. We are


lights everywhere we go. For our God has


made us light and we live as light and


we shine as the light. Hallelujah.


Praise God. Amen. Amen. You know


Colossians chapter 3 and verse 16. It


say let the word of Christ dwell in you


richly in all wisdom, teaching and


admonishing one another in psalms, hymns


and spiritual songs, singing and making


melody, singing with grace in your heart


unto the Lord. So we can speak one to


another with psalms, hymns, and


spiritual song. This morning of assault,


I feel God's hand heavy upon me for


utrance. I just going to yield to the


Holy Ghost this morning. Amen. Yeah.


Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just going to yield to


the Holy Ghost. Yeah. But my tongue is


like a a a pen of the ready writer.


Yeah. Yeah. Amen. There's many things


God wants to communicate this morning in


and by the spirit. Hallelujah. Praise


God. Yes. Yes. Yes.


Yes. People of love. Oh, you greatly


wounded me, but I forgive you. That's


power.


That's powerful. It breaks the heart of


the man who is hardened in his


wickedness and his offense towards us. I


have forgiven you. I know you didn't ask


for it, but I've forgiven you all the


same. Only Jesus makes a man like that.


And that's how God has made us.


Hallelujah.


or people of love is as normal or people


of grace or people of forgiveness is as


normal as breathing.


Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen.


Amen. Amen. Let's not moralize


salvation. No. Let's preach salvation


the way the biblical writers taught


salvation. Amen.


Hallelujah.


Amen.


Hallelujah.


I just yield to the Holy Ghost. There's


a a bit of interruption this morning. I


just flow with that and still teach


because teaching function is heavy upon


me. as a a lady here the left side of


your body uh the internal organs are


giving you issues the left side of your


body just uh an excruciating pain and


also there could be a diagnosis I feel


like is more than one if I finish saying


the word more than one person will come


up for that kind of healing but there's


a uh the left side of your body there's


a excruciating pain uh Yeah, is a lady.


Then like I said, if I finish saying it,


I know more than one person will come


out, which could be male and female,


too. But there's a left side as I was


saying those transances just now. Your


faith went up to God and you said, "Ah,


I'll be healed. This thing will go. It


will leave my body. So, I'll just lay


hands and touch you and that will be


it." Yeah. Yeah. In the name of Jesus.


The name of Jesus. Yeah. Glory to God.


Now in the name of Jesus, in the name of


he who died


rose again, in the name of he who died


and was buried and rose again. Yeah. In


the name of he who died was buried and


rose again, you will not find it. Yeah.


Yeah. Yeah. That's the power of


God. The name of Jesus. Yeah. Yeah.


Yeah. Yeah. In the name of he who died


and


rose again. Yeah. In the name of he who


died was buried and rose again. Yeah.


That's the name. That's the name above


every name. The name. The name. The name


of Jesus. Yeah. You won't find it. Yeah.


Just


just get out in the name of Jesus. Yeah.


Some people coming out for all the


things, but God is merciful.


Yeah. The name of Jesus in the name of


he who died, was buried, rose again.


Yeah. You won't find it again. You won't


find it again. Yeah. That discomfort is


all


completely. Yeah. It's gone completely.


That discomfort is gone


completely. Get out. You foul spirit.


just seeing the devil hiding on the


shoulder saying I I I would lead to all


that disease. No, you're not. You're


defeated. Thank you, Jesus.


Yeah. Glory, glory, glory, glory, glory.


Yeah.


Uh the days ahead are full of joy.


The days ahead are full of peace. The


days ahead are full of restoration.


For God is with you walking in and


through you. For do not say the days


ahead are tough and hard. Oh, do not say


ah Nigeria has happened to Ebo. No, such


should not be your confession. No, the


days ahead are full of joy and peace.


The days ahead are full of plenty. For


now in and by the spirit, you enter into


days. For now in and by the spirit, you


walk every day in and by the spirit and


you see that there is not a problem


anywhere. Yeah. But people say no. See,


see, see, you also tell them no, you


also see see


For where many live by sight, we live by


revelation.


We live by inside information. Inside


information provided by the Holy Ghost.


And we know the days are here are


glorious.


[Applause]


Yeah.


Yeah. Take


it. The days ahead.


Yeah. Glory.


[Music]


Glory.


Yeah. Yeah. There's a restoration now.


The name of Jesus.


Yeah. I don't know.


[Applause]


[Music]


Yeah. I will just yield to


[Applause]


joy.


[Applause]


Glory.


Yeah. Woohoo.


Glory.


Woo!


Yeah!


[Applause]


Woohoo!


Woo! Yeah!


Yes.


Yeah.


While you are rejoicing, God is working.


He's working things for you. Come on.


Yield to joy. Woo.


Glory.


Glory.


Yeah. I've got joy on my inside.


[Music]


Monday, I come in the name of the


Lord. Tuesday, I come in the name of the


Lord. Wednesday, I come in the name of


the Lord. Thursday, I come in the name


of the Lord. Friday, I come in the name


of the Lord. Saturday I come in the name


of Sunday I come in the name of the


Lord every day I come in the office of


he who died was buried and was rose


again the third day every day I come in


that office.


[Applause]


Yeah.


Yeah.


[Applause]


Yeah. Yeah.


Glory.


[Applause]


[Music]


Yeah.


[Applause]


[Music]


That's yeah there are 14 specific


healings that has just taken


place seven seven of such were what is


called impossible


conditions impossible conditions very


difficult medical conditions but you see


now the power of God has restored,


reversed it.


Yeah. And your bodies are


normal the name of


Jesus. Oh


yeah. Yeah.


We appropate that power into our bodies


for the healings of our bodies.


Yeah.


We appropriate that power into our


organs.


Ah, my eyes are full of the glory. My


ears are full of the power of God. My


lungs, my spine, my spleen, my nerves,


my spinal cord is full of the glory of


God,


[Music]


full of the glory of God.


Yeah, that issue with your spine, that


will not be the end.


You have wept. You have cried. Come that


brother issue with the spine. You have


cried. You have wept. When will it end?


We put the power of


God. Put the


power because my enemy was too strong.


He said God delivered me.


Break the name of Jesus. Return back to


normal. No more pain. Amen.


You have wept. You have cried. This


thing, where will it go? Where will it


go? Where will it go? Hands have even


been laid on me. Now. Now. No more. No


more. Amen. Stand on your feet.


Bend your body freely for the very first


time. You won't find it again. Amen.


No way.


[Applause]


Move your body.


[Applause]


And also that exhaustion.


And every loss you have suffered because


you have not been in maximum


productivity in your office, in your


business is restored. Amen. Amen. Amen.


Amen. The power of God is coming on you


one more time


again. Thank you, Jesus.


God restores your spine back to normal


in the name of he who died, was buried,


and rose again. Yes.


Yeah. Let the power of God say to him,


"Yeah, in the name of Jesus."


Healed in the name of Jesus.


Healed in


the go now. In the name of


Jesus. Yeah. Go. In the name of Jesus.


The name of Jesus. Amen. Well, still


teaching.


Ah yeah.


[Music]


Glory.


[Applause]


Oh boy.


Oh


boy. Now just verify ushers and medical


people verify those


[Music]


healings. While God is working salvation


in the earth, he's also working healings


in your body.


[Applause]


He's also working healings in your body.


Come, there's something building up in


your body. The power of God will break


it off. Amen. So, uh, I've been there


after you gave birth, but you haven't


done his can. So, you haven't seen it.


But in the name of Jesus, by the mercy


of God's power,


Break the name of Jesus. Break


off. The error of the doctors are


corrected.


[Music]


little anything else. The name of Jesus.


Amen.


Amen. Thank you. Thank you Jesus.


[Laughter]


[Music]


[Applause]


Yeah. Yeah.


I just feel like asking you how is your


dad. Come tell me in my


ear that


the name of Jesus.


He has his mind well.


What the enemy meant for evil, God has


turned it around.


Give the enemy a dry womb,


dry caraging womb and a dry breast


cannot nurse her plans to free


the name of Jesus.


Amen. Amen.


[Music]


Just give the Lord a shout.


Amen. Amen. Hallelujah. Praise God.


Amen. Amen. Now you have richer clients


now. And


yeah, March into April, you do a a


turnover of 2 million.


Yeah, that's I saw it.


And that sister walking the uh


everything about the traveling to be


with your husband is done now. April you


are gone. God has done it. Amen.


Yeah. God has done everything.


Amen.


Amen. and everything is settled in the


month of April.


Give him thanks and have your seat. Help


help her to her seat. Hallelujah.


Amen. Amen. Amen. You know, we ought to


yield to the Holy Ghost. Yes, sir.


Power of God doesn't have to wait till


the service end till I finish


teaching. Yeah. Yeah, that's how it


held. By the power of God. Yeah. You


just said it in your heart and I


responded to that. Yeah. That's how it


held by the power of God. Yeah. You


don't have to shift it. The power of God


is


working. Scent words are working


wonders. You don't need to come to my


house. Just speak the


word. Saint words are working.


[Applause]


Amen.


Has caused you pain,


anguish, you have even been mocked and


insulted. What you getting married in


April next year, you in the worship


team, fear not. God has put things


together for your good. Amen. And even


now as we speak, he's working behind the


scene, orchestrating your steps to meet


the man and the man to meet you.


And fear not, God has heard your prayer


for you. Cried unto the Lord Saboat and


he is pleased. He is now riding on the


clouds to your help. For the God of


Jeson is your help and he has helped


you. Amen. right out early.


Yeah, God has done it.


Amen.


Amen. All right, back to our message.


Just let it flow like that. Amen. Amen.


Just just leave it. So, don't need to


edit anything. Amen. Salvation. We said


salvation has been reduced to um we


moralize the problem. No, salvation is


not morality and we explain what that


means. Also, salvation has been


paganized. We also emphasize that a lot


in this series, remember? Yes, sir. All


right. And we talked about two things.


You know, when you say paganized, pagan,


it will deal with other forms of


worship. All right? And two things about


that form is where people have an angry


god. What foils paganism is an angry god


that needs to be appeased. Is why


there's always animal sacrifice. Why the


gods needs five virgins, seven virgins


to cleanse the land. Why you need this?


And we brought that also into


Christianity. An angry god and there to


be appeased also because we must bring


Jesus inside. Jesus is now appeasing


that angry god. But that's not the


biblical story. The biblical story is


God so loved the world that he gave his


only begotten son. So it's not that God


wanted to condemn the world. Look at the


John 3:16 and 17. God so loved the world


that he gave his only begotten son that


whosoever believeth in him should not


perish but have everlasting life. Amen.


Have everlasting life. Have everlasting


life. Amen. For God sent not into the


world to condemn the world, but that the


world through him might be saved. Might


be saved. Might be safe. Might be safe.


Amen. So he's not an angry God. No.


Anger is a work of the flesh. Anger in


fact the


the in the writings he says anger rested


dwelleth in the bosom of fools. I mean


you see that expression in psalms in


proverbs. That's why I mean the


writings. in the right things


just God is not an angry God but the use


of the word the wroth of God or the


anger of God like I have explained also


in this series is a response because


anger is a response amen you shouldn't


retain it retaining anger is the problem


you can show displeasure but retaining


it now calling it your nature now using


to describe I am an angry person that is


foolish that's what the uh the writings


were calling anger dwell in the bosom of


fool. So when you now say I am an angry


person, no that's like saying I'm a


foolish person. Amen. So an angry father


punishing his son. So we turn salvation


to an appeasing God. And a theological


term called propitiation is now pushed


beyond the


boundaries of which the biblical writers


thought about propitation. So


propitation, atonement, those phrases


are now giving a different meaning other


than what the biblical writer said.


Surely was God angry at the condition of


his world? Yes. If he's not, then he's a


wicked God. But an angry God that is


ready to destroy his world, no. That is


not how the biblical writers present God


saving us. No, it's not that in his No,


in his great


love. Romans


8:32. For God spared not his son. That


was spared not there. For God did not


withhold his son. That's the word spared


there. Not that God beat his son. For


God spared not his son but gave him up


for us. How not with him freely give us


all things. Amen. Hallelujah.


And another aspect of paganizing


salvation has been turning salvation to


the afterlife. That when you say I am


saved, I believe in the afterlife. I am


now going to live in the afterlife. And


we said no, salvation is bodily


resurrection. That thing where my spirit


and my body is separated is the very


thing that Jesus wants to save us from.


So when we die, what happens to us? We


are


temporarily in an in the place of


eternal bliss. You can call it paradise.


You can call it heaven. You can call it


being with the Lord to be asking for the


body to be present with the Lord. But


that is not the final state of man. So


that is not the end. That is temporal.


That's if we die before he's coming to


restore all things are new. Amen. But


don't now paganize it to be I believe in


the afterlife. So I told you instead of


believing in uh I will rework that


again. Life after death. Life after


death. You see you are still making


death a good thing. Death is the enemy


that he saves us from. So once you make


death a good thing. Once you make death


what we look forward to. I can't wait to


die and be absent from my body. No. God


does not want you absent from your body.


He made man to dwell in his body. That's


why the call is called the res.


Everybody believes that resurrection


money. So why do you not take it to be a


joke? Bodily resurrection. So we said


instead of saying life after death, say


I believe in life


after life after death. I believe in


life after life after death. That's


better because that's the biblical


story. Amen. Because that is bodily


resurrection. Now you will not do proof


texting to find two or four, five, seven


Bible verses to support what you are


saying. But you now see all the Bible


come together in that explanation. Is


that okay?


Hallelujah.


So we ought not to


paganize salvation, make salvation about


believing that there is an afterlife.


No. Every religion believes there is an


afterlife. So when we make that the core


of what Christianity offers, no. So we I


get I got to explain to you that man was


not created immortal. That is a wrong


theology that say man is immortal


whether saved or unsaved. That he will


dwell forever and ever and ever and ever


and ever and ever ever because the


spirit cannot be destroyed dwell forever


and ever and ever and ever and ever in


hell and we will dwell forever ever ever


in heaven. That's not Bible you are


reading. Amen. No, that is not that


actually makes


people agree and accept to stay without


the Lord. No. No, no, no, no, no, no,


no. We I read it and I showed you all


through scripture that God alone has


immortality. Even the angels don't have


immortality. There were not anything


created that has a marking in time when


they were made. There's a time where


they were created. Seen and unseen


creature do not have immortality. God is


the only one who has immortality and he


now gives immortality as a gift to the


man who have faith in him. So he says


Jesus has abolished death and has


brought life and immortality to light


through the gospel. Timothy Abby we read


those texts also in the course of this


series and I will not read it now but


sorry that's we have to go over the


series again and again. So this is the


conclusion. This is the last part of the


series. Thank you for putting the verse


up there. Amen. So salvation has been


moralized. Salvation has been paganized.


And the third salvation has been


platonized using Plateau's teaching. One


of the most brilliant Greek philosophers


of all times just like in the likes of


the Socrates Aristo you have plateau


wonderful intelligent brilliant man and


because uh there's a branch of


philosophy called metaphysis where they


study the unseen world and these men


believed in the unseen world. So they


also had philosophies, ideologies,


position, intelligent positions about


the unseen world. And much of Greek


philosophy has shaped westernization.


Why? Because Rome uh Greece was once the


world


power. Ah you are not sure. Yes. Now


Greek was once the world power. All


right. In the uh rise of Alexander the


great and onward. the the Greek nation


was the world power and so much of


civilization in the


uh present time as we will call it in


that middle ages was shaped a lot in


that middle ages the fifth century to


the 15th century was shaped a lot with


Greek


philosophy and we now saw that same


ideologies brought into Christianity and


you won't blame


them you won't blame them Because the


challenge is when we not interpret the


Bible with the Bible, we will fall into


a ditch. The Bible should interpret the


Bible, not what we are going through,


not the what people are arguing about.


We now use that to interpret the Bible.


No, the Bible should interpret itself,


not using what we are going through to


interpret the Bible. Amen. And so


platonizing salvation was where the


whole goal of salvation is always when


we die. when we die. Why do you like


death so much? Death is actually the


very thing that he seeks to destroy. So


you can't make the whole work of Jesus


about when I die. That makes death a


savior. So we can't wait. We look


forward to death. No, we look forward to


life. Man was not made for death. Man


was made for life. And so we said


Genesis 1 and 2, the story the biblical


writers are telling is not a story of we


get to go to heaven when we die. is that


we get to be with the Lord forever. So


even when you read the Bible, we going


to heaven which is okay because if we


die now we are in like we call it


paradise and eternal bliss


heaven being present with the Lord. The


New Testament writers uses that phrase


of where the believer is because we are


with the Lord. So the Lord is in heaven.


So we understand that. But is it a


finality? No. We see heaven coming down


on the earth. Heaven coming down on the


earth. So Genesis 1 vers2, God created


heaven and earth together. Revelation


21:22, the Bible ends with heaven and


earth also together. A marriage of


heaven and earth together because they


are though they look opposites but they


were made for one another just like the


male was made for the female. In fact, I


use this exact phrase when I was


teaching this. All right? So they were


made for each other. So it's not about


going to heaven when we die. Does that


mean we don't believe in heaven? If you


don't believe in heaven, something is


fundamentally wrong with you. You have


to destroy a lot of Bible verses. We


believe in heaven. So what does that


mean? It means when we got born again,


we are in heaven. Now when you


understand this, then you realize that


that foolishness of saying salvation can


be lost makes no sense because for them


their salvation that can be lost is


going to heaven. That's where I am now.


I'm already living and operating from


there. is all the earth that is not


heaven


yet. Are you following? And we explain


that


extensively in this series. So if you


are just hearing for the first time, I


beg you start from the beginning again.


So religion in the western world has


been less and less concerned about the


renewal of creation and more and more


concerned with going to heaven when we


die. Is that not popular theory? All


right. Escaping from this wicked world


and going to a better place are all


Greek philosophy. In fact, I told you of


one of the famous uh priests in that uh


AD46 to AD20 the man lived. His name was


Plutarch. He had a philosophy and he


taught extensively Plateau's teachings.


One of the loudest proponent of


Plateau's teachings. Uh P L U T A R O C


H. And he said we came from heaven. We


came from heaven. We will need to go


back to heaven because this world is not


our own. Where you see it in our


Christian songs today. This world is not


my own. I'm just a passing through. All


those ideologies are Greek


philosophy. We came from heaven. We go


back to heaven. This world is not our


own. No, this world is our own. God made


the earth for man. Psalm 15:15 and


16. Emphasis. The heavens belong to the


Lord. The earth has he given to the sons


of men. God gave us the earth. God made


the earth for his man. He put his man in


the earth. Hallelujah. But the earth is


the Lord's. But he put man on the earth.


Heaven and earth belongs to the Lord.


But he put man on the


earth. So God is not going to abolish


the universe of time, space, and matter.


Is that okay? That universe of time,


space, and matter is forever. So we saw


in Ephesians he say words without


end. Words without end. You're looking


surprised. Ephesians


3. We read these


references. Unto him be glory. I mean


verse 21 of Ephesians 3. Unto him be


glory in the church by Christ Jesus


throughout all ages. Words without end.


Ephesians 3:21. World without end. World


without


end. God is not going to abolish


universe of space, time, and matter.


He's going to renew it. He's going to


restore it. He's going to fill it with


new joy and purpose and delight. He's


going to take from it all that has


corrupted it. That is the biblical


story. And we emphasize this a lot in


this series, remember? Now, let's read


Isaiah 35. I didn't read this text for


you, but let's read it.


Uh Isaiah


35 1-10. We just read the whole chapter.


A brilliant text by the way. Isaiah the


prophet, which is where John and Paul


get their teachings of new creation


from. It is Isaiah's theology. And


Isaiah got theology from Moses. Moses


sought new heavens and new earth.


Renewer, the restoration of the heavens


and the earth. Isaiah 35 and from verse


one. The wilderness and the solitary


place shall be glad for them and the


desert shall rejoice and blossom as the


rose. It shall blossom abundantly and


rejoice even with joy and singing. The


glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it.


The excellency of Camel and Shaon. They


shall see the glory of the Lord and the


excellency of our God. Strengthen ye the


weak hands. Confirm the fee. Say to them


that are of a fearful heart, be strong,


fear not. Behold, your God will come.


That's the story the biblical writers


tell. God coming. God coming. Your God


will come with vengeance. Even God with


a recompense. He will come and save you.


Then the eyes of the blind shall be


open, and the ears of the deaf shall be


unstopped. Then shall the lame man leap


as an heart, and the tongue of the dumb


sing. For in the wilderness shall waters


break out and streams in the desert, and


the patch ground shall become a pool,


and the testy land springs of water, in


the habitation of dragons, where each


lay shall be grass with reeds and


rushes. Are you saying there's a


resurrection? And an highway shall be


there, and a way it shall be called the


way of holiness. The unclean shall not


pass over it, but it shall be for those.


The wayfairing men, though fools, shall


not air therein. No lion shall be there,


nor any ravenous beast shall go up there


on. It shall not be found there, but the


redeemed, but the redeemed shall walk


there. And the ransomed of the Lord


shall return and come to Zion with songs


and everlasting joy upon their heads,


and they shall obtain joy and gladness


and sorrow, and sighing shall flee away.


Does that ring gear?


Revelation 21:4, "And God shall wipe


away all tears from their eyes, and


there shall be no more death, neither


so, neither cry, neither shall there be


any more pain, for the former things are


passed away." That's Revelation 21:4.


For the former things have passed away.


Look at Isaiah


25. Isaiah 25.


from verse


seven. He will destroy in this mountain


the face of the covering cast over all


the people and the veil that is spread


over all nations. He will swallow up


debt in victory. And the Lord God will


wipe away tears from off all faces. And


the rebuke of his people shall he take


away from off all the earth. For the


Lord have spoken


it. And it shall be said in that day,


load this is our


we have waited for.


He will save. This is the Lord. We have


waited for him. We will be glad and


rejoice in his salvation. Yeah, that's


it. So God is not going to abolish


universe of space, time, and matter.


He's going to renew it, restore it, fill


it with new joy and purpose and delight.


and he would take from it all that


corrupted it. So we in this series we


explained that salvation is not


rescue from this world but is the rescue


of this world from sin, death and the


powers of darkness. God has rescued his


world. God has rescued his creation, his


heaven and earth creation. God has


rescued it from sin, death, futility,


bondage, decay, powers of darkness.


Amen. So God has rescued his creation.


So he did not come to condemn the world,


but to save the world. Is that not John


3:17? All right. So it's salvation of


the world, nor salvation from the world.


So when the Bible says we are in the


word but not of the word, it's talking


about cannality that we do not live the


way unbelievers live. It's not that we


are God is taking us away from the word


because he hates the word. No, God made


the word. There are at least 40


references that emphasizes God made the


word. The heaven is the Lord. The earth


is the Lord. And we read several of them


in the course of this series. Amen. So


stop having this idea that God it is his


world. The world does not belong to


Satan does not belong to


devils. Hallelujah. So we said salvation


has been platonized and we also


corrected that in this series. Is that


okay? Salvation also has been


individualized where it's all about me.


It's all about me. It's all about me.


It's all about me. Me I I I instead of


we. You see, if it was only me in the


world, Jesus would have come. That's a


lie. It's not only you. He didn't come


for only you. Came for all of us. And I


know you're trying to portray and push


the fact that God loves you, but he


didn't die for only you. That's the


selfishness and the stinginess that


comes in and all those theories of self


love. No, they're not biblical. They are


not. What God's word teaches. That's


what we mean by biblical there. Amen.


What God's word teaches is that he died


for the world and by extension you and


me. So I am in the extension. Not that


he came for only me. No, that's why even


your unborn children, what he did covers


for them. So it's quite selfish when he


say only me. It's not only you, sir.


It's not only you, it's the world. And


because he's lord of the world, what he


did was beyond time and space. So even


our unborn children what he did is going


to cover them as well.


Amen. Romans 6 verse4 say we were buried


with him. We were not I am. Romans 8:24


we are saved by hope. And I've also


explained that when we say we are saved


by hope. He puts it in the past tense


and yet he puts past tense and present


future tense together. We are saved past


tense by hope future tense. Why? Because


that hope what has happened to us is


going to happen to all the earth. We


explained that in fact in a truth


experience series we thought God's


future


plan. Come on. But within this series


where we have emphasized we emphasize


what is the Christian hope. What are we


waiting for? All the earth. What the


famous song we sing. The glory of the


Lord shall cover the earth as the water


covers the sea. Is that okay? So we


individualize salvation. No, it's about


all of us. 1 Timothy 1:15, God came to


save sinners in the world of which I am


chief. Paul applies it to himself. He


saves sinners in the world. Then he puts


himself inside. Amen. So it's not if it


were only me. John 3:17, he came to save


the


world. Hallelujah. So individualizing it


is in an


application. Salvation is for


all Jew, Gentile, everybody. Whosoever


calls on the name of the Lord shall be


saved. So let's stop individualizing it.


And I've showed you that every time you


see I am, there's nothing that I am in


Christ that we are not in Christ. All of


the I am in Christ is we are in Christ.


Amen. So understand that and realize


that it is a union. A union of Jew and


Gentile together. That is salvation. A


union of the tribes, the races, a union


of God and man. And is for all the


world. So stop individualizing it to be


all about you.


Amen. It's not all about you.


No, it's all about him. It is his story


that defines history, not your story. So


we say your days in his days are


glorious. The essence of time is for his


purpose, for his glory. So it's about


him. It's about his word, his plan, and


we live in that. Amen. So let's not


individualize this so much. Hallelujah.


Then another thing I mentioned on


Wednesday which we have talked about in


the series but we have not put uh I


didn't have to in the series put so much


weight on it but I said it several times


that there's nothing like salvation that


can be lost. Salvation has been


temporalized. It is eternal life. It is


the gift of eternal life not the gift of


temporal life. parenting is temporal is


our


going to a place or when we die that


eternal bliss that that is the only


temporal thing there what is eternal is


the life we have so that's why we say


throughout the series I explained that


salvation is that I've been raised to


life now and forever in God's new


heavens and earth I've been raised to


life in God's new heavens and earth now


and forever So doesn't matter when I


physically sleep, I am still with the


Lord. And even when all the earth is


renewed, I'm still with the Lord. The


emphasis is that I am with the Lord and


I will never leave the Lord. Amen. I'm


always with him. He is in me. Because


what does God want on the earth? His


family and his kingdom. And that is


realized in salvation. Hallelujah.


So salvation has been temporalized that


when people talk about salvation they


always on the last day only true


believer shall be raptured and it make


the rapture teaching or the coming of


the Lord teaching look scary. No he's


coming for us joining us in the work


that we have been doing in restoring all


the earth. So it's not a scary teaching.


That's why when the New Testament


writers thought about the coming of the


Lord, they said that day will not take


you by surprise. It will not overtake


you like a thief in the night because


you are not in the dark but in the


light. Hallelujah. 1 Thessalonians


chapter


5. For yourself know perfectly that the


day of the Lord so come as a 9:2 verse


three. For when they shall say peace and


safety, then sudden destruction cometh


upon them as travail upon a woman with


child, and they shall not escape. But ye


are not in darkness, that that day


should overtake you as a thief. Ye are


all children of the light and the


children of the day. We are not of the


night, nor of darkness. Therefore, let


us not sleep as do others, but let us


watch and be


sober. Did you get it? Verse 9. For God


has not appointed us to rot but to


obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus


Christ who died for us that whether we


wake or sleep, we should live together


with him. Emphasis live together with


him.


Hallelujah. So that day does not


overtake us as a thief in the night. So


first Thessalonians chapter 5 is very


clear. Amen.


He's very clear. Salvation is eternal.


Hebrews chapter


5. Hebrews chapter 5 and we


read verse 9. and being made perfect. He


became the author of eternal salvation


unto all them that obey him. That obey


him. There is the obedience of the


faith. It's not a moral examination that


he's talking about. Don't take it


outside context. Them that obey him. The


word obey him is used a lot to explain


salvation. They obey you. In fact,


there's that phrase obedience of the


faith. You saw it in Romans 1 vers5. I


read that don't turn there where we said


to by whom we have received grace and


apostilhip for the obedience of the


faith among all nations when I was


saying that is for all nations. We saw


that word again obedience of faith in


Romans


16:26 but now is made manifest by the


scriptures of the prophet according to


the commandment of everlasting God made


known to all nations for the obedience


of the faith.


So there is what we are obeying the same


way we read Romans 2:8 but unto them


that are contentious and do not obey the


truth but obey unrighteousness


indignation and wroth. So that word obey


there is not moral examation but where


faith is we obey him we believe in him


we have obeyed remember disobedience


brought sin obedience brings life


disobedience


there refusal to heed what you were told


so when you heard the gospel did you


obey yes I obeyed I obeyed the gospel


hallelujah I am


saved Tim 2 Thessalonians 1 and verse


eight in flaming fire taking vengeance


on them that know not God and that obey


not the gospel of our Lord Jesus


Christ. So them that obey not the gospel


of Lord Jesus Christ, there is a


consequence who shall be punished with


everlasting destruction from the


presence of the Lord and from the glory


of his


power. Notice the use of the word who


shall be punished with everlasting


destruction from the presence. That word


from is away from is they not punished


inside his presence. Inside his presence


there's no punishment. Inside his


presence there's no destruction. They


are punished from the word the Greek


word there is away from not inside. So


don't read from. If I say go from me


you're not going to come inside of me


now. So so from can be in. It can be out


depending on the context. So they are


destroyed from the present because it


separates sheep and goats. Is that not


so? So that separation that separation


is not for the save. The believer has


already is in an inseparable union with


God. That's why his salvation or his


redemption is called eternal. So in the


Hebrews chapter 5 he calls


it Hebrews 5:9 and being made perfect he


became the author. The word author there


is the Greek word itios. It means he's


the causative factor. If there is a


crime, if salvation is a crime, who you


should hold responsible is Jesus. He is


the He is the cursor of He's the He's


the one that has caused it. All blame is


pointed towards him. He is the cause of


eternal salvation. C A U S E. So he's


the author of eternal salvation. It's


not the gift of temporal life. It's not


the gift of temporal salvation. It's the


gift of eternal salvation. You save


something so that it will not be lost.


So when something that is saved is lost,


that is actually what salvation seeks to


achieve. To save something from being


lost. So if I am saved and I end up


being lost, I should hold one person


responsible. Who saved me? Because he


failed. So he said, "None can plug them


out of my hand." None can plug them out


of my hand. Hallelujah.


Whosoever believes in the Son has


eternal life. John


3:36 has eternal


life. Eternal life. You see the


emphasis placed in John 6:37. All that


the Father has given me shall come unto


me, and him that cometh unto me, I will


in no wise cast out.


Not now, not


ever have you come to the Lord. And this


is the will of him who sent me. Verse


39, that I lose none of all that he has


given me, but raise them up on the last


day. Every shepherd keep their sheep.


Hallelujah.


So if I'm not kept, we already read that


salvation he present us faultless,


faultless before his throne. He's his


one that does the work. will keep me


faultless. That was true, Dabby. We read


that when we're teaching what Jesus did


for us in his death. Died for us.


Hallelujah. Look at John 10:27 to30. My


sheep listens to my voice. I know them.


They follow me. I give them eternal


life. And they shall never ever ever


perish. They shall never


ever I'll wait for you a bit.


All these texts, you can't read them and


be thinking your salvation is


temporal. No, it's eternal life. My


sheep hear my voice and I know them.


Remember the word I know them. Remember


for a man that is not saved, he say I


don't know you. Salvation you are known


of God. Nothing like he does not know


me. Is this a pretense we are playing


here? That's why you should not wait


until you die now. You should have known


as you have been living since. Has God


been talking to you? Have you been


calling you my son, my daughter? How can


all of a sudden on the last day now say


I don't know you but as we say my son my


son is it that is a joker so there's an


emphasis for how we leave in our living


it should have been clear enough that


you are really safe that you are now


having to wait till you know no no no no


my sheep hear my voice I know them and


they follow me I give unto them eternal


life and they shall never that word


never there is the double negative that


strengthens denier


So you see there are three Greek words


for that word never there


never then he uses uh towards a period


of time aon so he uses ume aon that


means he will never never never ever


forever be ever ever.


So he links it to forever. That word


never now have time put into it. And yet


even the grammar emphasizes that


salvation is eternal. But I don't know


how people read. I give unto them


eternal life. And they shall never be


ever forever be ever able to


perish. Neither shall any manise.


Neither shall anyone plug them out of my


hand. My father which gave them unto me


is greater than all. and no one is able


to plug them out of my


hand. Then he says, I and my father are


one is the same thing I'm saying. So


plug them out of my hand. Plug them out


of my father hands mean the same thing.


He uses the Deuteronomy chapter 6. Here


is the Lord your God is one Lord. That's


what he's teaching there. All right. We


taugh that in who is like unto God when


we did that series. So eternal life.


Look at John 11. Jesus


emphasizes 25, I am the resurrection and


the life. He that believeth on me,


though he were dead, yet shall he live.


Do you believe that?


Whosoever liveth and believeth in me


shall never die. Believest thou this, he


he had to ask her. Ma, do you believe


this? Because matter said, I know that


my brother shall rise again on the last


day. Then Jesus said, I am the


resurrection and the life. So I am the


he that believeth on me though he were


dead yet shall he live. So the emphasis


of salvation is not death but


life is death he saves us from. So and


that is


eternal. Clear


clear. Hallelujah.


Nothing can separate me from the love of


God. Emphasis in Romans


8:35-39. For I'm convinced. I am


convinced. I am convinced. Tell your


neighbor, I'm convinced that neither


death nor life nor engine nor


principality is your name in the book of


life. No, it's not a scary movie. The


book of life contains my name. Why?


Because the book of life is the book of


the intercessory work of Christ. All


those who have Jesus as their


intercessor and it's not a literal book


that you are using pencil to clean. Come


on now. The word book there is just to


explain that God has a record of all


those that have eternal life. And John


tells us this is the record that he has


given us eternal life. He that has the


son has life. So the book of life speaks


of the fact that we have life. A record


of all those that have life. So it's my


name there. Yeah, how come I not? That's


why the book is the called the book of


life and it's not a literal book because


it could be an iPad of life because they


don't have to have book like you know


they the writers we write with the


understand so the use of the word book


there is just to explain record must not


be say don't use eraser it don't clean


my name after I confess my sin again


write it back then there's nobody's name


that can ever last in the book every day


you are cleaning you are removing


cleaning if we are confused he is not


God is not doing I accept I disown I


disown I accept. I own you. I disown.


No. Hallelujah.


Amen.


So salvation has been


temporalized. Look at 2 Corinthians


chapter 1 and verse


20. For all the promises of God in him


are yay and amen unto the glory of God


by us. Now he that established us with


you in Christ and has anointed us is God


who has also sealed us and given the


earners of the spirit in our heart. How


can you not be sure of your salvation?


He gave you the


spirit. If that same spirit Romans 8:11,


if that same spirit that raised Christ


from the dead dwell in you, that same


spirit shall give life to your mortal


body. So there's a guarantee of eternal


of of our bodies being glorified because


we are already saved. So we are saved.


We have been saved. We shall be saved.


No, we are already saved. We are saved


now and forever. That's better. The


other one can enter into the crime of


oversimplification. We are saved. Is not


don't divide us into parts. God did not


create us to be broken into parts.


Created us whole.


Whed us whole. Whole human beings are


saved. No, my spirit is saved. My soul


is not saved. My


body whole. I am saved. I get the point


of what you're trying to say. But it's


the same thing. That simplification will


put us in trouble because we are


breaking us into part. We were created


whole and God breed into man and man


became a living soul. That man is saved.


That living soul is saved. Hallelujah.


Amen.


I am saved.


I am


saved. Hallelujah.


Amen.


So an emphasis salvation has been


temporalized. No, God will never forsake


us. He will never cast us out. He said


he will never there is therefore now no


condemnation, no condemnation, no


catacria, no adverse sentencing against


them that are in Christ Jesus. Who are


the them in Christ Jesus who walk not is


not describing a conduct but a nature


who we are them who walk not the them in


Christ are the them who walk not the


flesh but after the spirit the same


thing he explains in verse four


righteousness of the law is fulfilling


us who walk not so describing our


identity we are the people who are not


found in the flesh we are not found in


sin and death so then Romans 8:8 they


that are in the flesh cannot please God.


So it's describing two identities, two


locations, them in the flesh and them in


the spirit. So then they that are in the


flesh cannot please God. But you are not


in the flesh but in the spirit. If so be


that the spirit of God dwell in you. I'm


in the spirit. I'm in the spirit. Amen.


Amen. Revelations chapter 3 and verse 5.


He that overcomemeth the same shall be


clothed. Why does John use the word


overcometh? because we have a work to do


on the earth. We are already saved but


we should live


triumphantly. So you will see in the


same letter that he who has overcome, he


tells us in 1 John chapter 5, who is he


that overcometh the word, but he that


believes that Jesus is the son of God,


he that believes that, that's first John


5:4. Whatsoever is born of God


overcometh the word. And this is the


victory that cometh the word even our


faith. Who is it that cometh the word?


For he that believe that Jesus is the


son of God. Who is it that overcometh?


He that believes that Jesus is the son


of God. Do you believe Jesus is the son


of God? Is the same John that wrote


Revelation. When he say he that


overcometh, he's talking about the


believer. Why does he now put it in


present tense? Because the believer has


a mission on the earth. Amen. So it says


he that overcomemeth the same shall be


coated in white raignment and I will not


I will not again the word not there is


the word uh I will never ever shall in


no case shall in no wise


blot out his name of the from the book


of life but I will confess his name


before my father and before his angels


all


right so god's promises are unbreakable


Amen. God would So why will the believer


now not be sure of his salvation? You


say, "Ah, because God remember my sin."


But Jeremiah 31:34, Hebrews 10:17, God


said, "I would never remember your sins


anymore." So which sin is he remembering


to cast me away? He must be a joker.


Salvation is eternal. Then people go to


the Hebrews chapter 6 and say what


Hebrews 6 was teaching. Salvation can be


lost to H


see he say if they fall away to renew


them again to repentance the crucified


to themselves of God are fresh and put


into an open shame h they cannot be


renewed again no that's a lie that's not


what he's saying he 6 one down therefore


living the principles of the doctrine of


Christ let us go on to perfection what


he's simply saying let us go beyond the


um the rituals, the purifications, the


different laws and uh the different


things explained within the law of


Moses. Let us go on to what Christ has


done because what those things were to


do were to point us to Christ. Let us go


on to


Christ. Not laying again the foundation


of repentance from dead works and of


faith towards God of the doctrine of


baptism. So he mentioned the things that


we should let go onto Christ. So he


mentions where we are living to go onto


Christ and perfection in his letter


deals with what Jesus has done in his


death, burial and resurrection. I've


taugh this we have a series where we


taught on the doctrine of salvation.


We've emphasized that salvation is


eternal very we have teachings about


that. The issue is um when people hear


the word salvation they quickly bring


what they taught them in without any


understanding. They say once save


forever save. N demonic once save


forever save. So you should be wise not


to use that phrase because the phrase


has been


demonized. But how many times Jesus die


once? How many times did he die to save


us once for all? So you're just being


silly when you say once it's English


that's your problem but we forgive you


because the phrase has been demonized.


Why can you say one say I'm forever


safe? How many times did he die to save


us? Say one. So how am I safe? See okay


why don't you now be if and this what I


like proper logical argument once save


is not forever safe. I agree with you


once sin is forever damned. You say ah


no choose one now once I sin I am


forever damned. Say no which so how come


there's more messy in if I sin than than


I am saved? Say crafty coinage.


Hallelujah.


God would have us saved. Amen. Can the


head live without the body? Jesus said,


"I'm the head. We are the body. We are


joined together." Why do you want him to


live without his body? No. No. No.


Salvation is not explained like that.


Hallelujah.


So we said salvation has been moralized,


but that's not salvation. Salvation has


been paganized. Salvation has been


platonized. And we have explained what


it now is. Where we said what it is not,


we said what it is. Salvation has been


individualized, has been temporalized.


No, it's called eternal salvation. We


emphasize that eternal


salvation. Eternal


salvation. Eternal


salvation. Hebrews 7:25.


Hebrews 7:25 and that's the the year we


sang all of those song God my savior


author of salvation we


sang those songs Hebrews 7:25 wherefore


he's able alo to save them to the


uttermost able to save them to the


uttermost that means save completely


he's able to save them to the uttermost


them that cometh unto God by him seeing


he ever liveth to make intercession for


them. So his forever his work on the


cross, his work in his dead reservation


is his intercession for us. So I'm saved


forever because he's forever making


interession for me because his work in


his reservation is a forever work. So


I'm forever saved. It should not be


something a believer is scared to


say. Hallelujah.


Isaiah 45 and verse 17. But Israel shall


be saved in the Lord with an everlasting


salvation. You shall not be ashamed nor


confounded. World without


end. Remember I told you the word is


without end. Is renewing the head.


That's what the biblical writers


thought. Amen. So eternal


salvation it was that coinage is in the


scriptures we didn't make it


up so if you save something in the bank


and it is missing who should you hold so


if I my life is saved in Christ and my


life is lost who should I hold thank you


that means he failed so 2 Timothy 1:12


for which because I also suffer these


things. Nevertheless, I'm not ashamed,


for I know whom I have believed, and I'm


persuaded that he's able to keep that


which I' have committed unto him against


that day. He's able to keep


that. Is able to keep


that. He's able to keep that which is


committed into his hands. It's called


eternal redemption. Hebrews 9:12,


neither by blood of goat and cover by


his own blood, he entered in once for us


into the holy place, having obtained


eternal redemption for us. It's called


eternal


redemption. Eternal


redemption. Eternal redemption. It's


called eternal redemption. Just the same


way is our inheritance is called eternal


inheritance. The inheritance I have is


called eternal. Hebrews 9:15. For this


cause, we also read this when we're


looking at what he did in his death. For


this cause, he is the mediator of the


New Testament, that by means of death,


for the redemption of the transgression


that were under the first testament,


that they which are called might receive


the promise of eternal inheritance. So,


eternal redemption, eternal salvation,


eternal eternal life. That's what


explains the work of


Jesus. Because God made man to live with


him forever. sin and death brought a


pause to that. But now in the work of


Christ on the cross and his inaugurating


his kingdom on the earth that can no


longer happen to the man that is saved


and God now wants also all the earth.


That's why we preach the gospel and we


have emphasized that a lot in this


series. Amen. Amen. Number six,


salvation has also been horrorized. It's


like a horror movie. And that's why when


they put up a video, the burning hell,


people are scared. We shouldn't scare


people to Jesus. No. It is the goodness


of God that leads to


repentance. Is there a consequence for


sins? Yes. Is there a consequence for


not believing in Jesus? That's the sin


we're talking about. Is there a


consequence for that? Yes. Every other


consequence of sin in the natural is by


men. and through physical institutions


of judgment. Amen.


Hallelujah. I told you somebody that was


caught stealing and he said my sins are


again fooling himself. That's obviously


a joker. That's what you can tell was


taught wrongly.


Amen. Now there are texts people use to


threaten


people knowing the terror of the Lord.


The word terror of the Lord there is the


fear of the Lord. It says because of the


fear of the Lord we persuade men. The


fear of the Lord because of we know who


God is. We know that there's forgiveness


of sin with God. That terror there is


the fear of the Lord. Amen. Knowing the


terror of the Lord is not that God is


fire. Knowing the terror of the Lord.


Second Corinthians 5. Knowing


therefore why is he bringing this?


Because when you know that people are


going to hell for nothing. When you know


that people are going to


suffer away from the Lord for eternity.


People are not going to live with the


Lord forever. When you know people will


not have God as their father for


nothing other than their disobedience to


heed the gospel. Ah that should persuade


you to preach to them. That's what he's


saying. Amen. So the context is in verse


10. It says, "For we must all appear


before judgment seat of Christ, that


everyone may receive the things done in


his body according to that he has done,


whether it be good or bad, knowing


therefore the terror, the word terror,


there is the word phobos is the word


used for fear of the Lord." 46 times is


used in Matthew to Revelation. Knowing


the terror of the Lord, we persuade men,


but we are made manifest unto God. And I


trust also we are made manifest in your


conscience. For we commend not ourselves


again unto you, but give you occasion to


glory on our behalf, that ye may have


somewhat to answer them which glory in


appearance and not in heart. For whether


we be beside oursel, it is to God. Or


whether we be sober by, it is for your


cause. For the love of Christ


constrainth us.


Because we thus judge that if one died


for all, then were all


dead, and that he died for all, that


they which live should not henceforth


live unto themselves, but unto him that


died for them, and rose again. Wherefore


henceforth know we no man after the


flesh, yet though we have known Christ


after the flesh, yet now henceforth know


we him no more. Verse 17, therefore, if


any man be in Christ, he is the new


creation. Old things are passed away.


Behold, all things are become new. So,


it's not a scary movie. The context


reveals it. So, knowing the terror of


the Lord because of the fear of the


Lord, we persuade many.


Hallelujah. Knowing there's forgiveness


of sin with the Lord, we persuade many.


That's the terror of the Lord. Since we


know that God is merciful and gracious,


he forgives sin. We fear him. Fear the


Lord is we reverence him. So in our


worship and reverence of the Lord, we


have come to know who he is, the kind of


God is, we persuade many that you suffer


for nothing. You are wasting your life


for nothing. That's why as a Christian,


you should never be found


saying if not that I got born again now,


I would have shown you Pepe. Don't


regret salvation as if salvation is


robbing you. You are cheating yourself.


No, I'm thank God I got born again. It's


not hey if not for Jesus now I know what


I would have been doing. What you have


been doing? Wallowing in sin and guilt


and shame and condemnation. Powers of


darkness beating upon your head being


found in many waters. No. Thank God for


salvation where he has brought me out


from the marry clay. Set my feet on


solid rock. Hallelujah.


It's called so salvation has been


horrorized. H O R O R I Z E D. It's a


horror show. Then people even go as far


as say judgment must begin in the house


of God. And they misquote First Peter


chapter 4 and they use it to scare


people. First Peter chapter 4 and verse


17. For the time is come that judgment


must begin at the house of God. And if


it first begin at us, what shall the end


be of them that obey not the gospel of


God? God is judging his church. Ah ah


don't do that. You are intelligent.


Don't make your parents feel like they


wasted their school fees. There is a


context for every statement. You can't


start a sentence with for the time has


come. What did you say before that you


are saying for the time has come? The


context everyone writes in paragraph.


That's how to write intelligent writing.


1 Peter 4 started from verse one one


down to verse 11. Remember the biblical


writers did not write in chapters and


verses. It is the translators that put


in chapter and verses to help our


understanding. So where chapters and


verses are not helping your


understanding. You read everything which


is proper understanding. So first Peter


chapter 4 has only two paragraphs. 1 to


11 is one paragraph where he talks about


the believer should be a good steward of


the grace of God. So 1 to 11 one


paragraph then 12 down to 19 one


paragraph. So you read it like that. So


you see one context in 1 to 11 and that


context. So if because of time we'll now


start from verse 12 instead of starting


from verse one because we already get


the context he's saying


there. Are you with me? So reading from


verse 12.


Beloved think it not strange. Notice 1


verse 11 ended with


amen. Listen, come on, follow me. Listen


to me. This is Bible is what I do for a


living for God's sake. Amen. Quote half


New Testament


books. The thing problem with social


media. Social media have made people who


should not be found arguing with us.


Arguing with us. Everybody has an


opinion. Even somebody that you if you


seen in the natural you ought to


say shake your head. You said Mino I


have something to say to no you cannot


tell me that. No you cannot tell me


that. I remember telling somebody many


years ago I said quote 40 references on


salvation. He could not. I said then me


and you should be arguing. You don't


read your Bible. I'm obviously going to


be wasting my time because I'm telling


you let's read the whole chapter. You


are scared. You are the one that want to


I say it's Facebook now because you me


and you are in the same platform. So you


have lost your respect that there are


people you see you see and you realize


that ah this person is far more


intelligent than me. They not they hide


them. It should be obvious now you can


argue with everybody. I have something


to say too. I must speak my mind. Speak


your mind in Bible truth. Speak your


mind. Your mind should be what the


writer


said. Say less study than they are


scared.


Why? Let's not be like that.


Amen. I told somebody who was trying to


argue with with rabbi one time. I said


even if you think he's wrong, look at


the big big books he has


written. You can't even write a note


that is that big, you should calm down a


bit and think that no somebody that


knows this much cannot just be so


dafted. That's common sense way of


reasoning things. But people don't have


that common sense way of reasoning


things. say no I will speak my mind


speak mind like that


now doesn't mean you shouldn't say what


is on your mind but not in a foolish


manner don't judge a matter you have not


heard the end of people who don't even


know five references other than the ones


they write at the back of their Bible


say I have something to say calm down


calm down


amen often times the way they argue is


always with insult because they are not


patient enough so they fall for the for


name calling and insult tagging and all


of that because they can't argue their


positions


thoroughly. So this judgment must begin


in the house of God. When we read from


verse 12, you see the where I told you


easily where the paragraphs begin. I can


tell you where every paragraph in the


whole Bible begins and ends. The Bible


is paragraphed because the writers write


with phrases and topics in mind. So when


you read from verse 12 down to 19, you


get the paragraph of what he's saying.


Beloved, think it not strange concerning


the fiery trials which is to try you.


Fiery trials, the difficult things we go


through, the persecutions, the trials,


the different issues we go through,


persecutions as though some strange


thing happened to you. But rejoice in as


much as you are partakers of Christ


suffering. So he's talking about


persecutions. The persecutions we go


through. So the context is already


beginning with persecution. I said that


on Wednesday, but I didn't read the


text. So now I'm reading it for you. But


rejoice in as much as ye are partakers


of Christ suffering, that when his glory


shall be revealed, ye may be glad also


with exceeding joy.


If ye be reproached for the name of


Christ, happy are ye, for the spirit of


glory and of God rested upon you. And on


their part is evil spoken of, but on


their part he is glorified. But let none


of you suffer as a murderer. So it says


talks about proper conduct again. Let it


not be that you are now suffering


because you are a murderer, you are a


thief or an evildoer or as a busy body


in other men's matter.


16 if any man suffer as a Christian let


him not be ashamed so the suffering he's


talking about now is the context of 14


and 13 which is suffering for the Lord


not suffering because you are a thief


not suffering because they caught you


red-handed as a kidnapper say because I


needed money no say that one you are


suffering properly that's a good


suffering that one is good for you


because you have done what is evil in


society should be an example in society


okay


So if any man suffer as a Christian, if


any man suffer what? What is the


context? What is the ellipses? Suffer


persecution. Abby, suffer for the Lord's


sake. Always read intelligently. I don't


know how some of you are looking at my


face and not looking at your Bible. We


are thinking. Thinking requires


intelligence. You can you have to be


following through, not looking somewhere


else. Look at your Bible. You are


thinking. Church is not where you submit


your brain and say go see that they tell


you. No, we're not forcing you to accept


it. We are showing you that's teaching.


If any man suffer as a Christian, so


what is the


suffer? Because verse 15 suffering he


said let none of you suffer like this


because that one is wrong. So but in 13


and 14 he said how we suffer we suffer


persecution. will suffer because of the


preaching of the gospel. And he says


that one we will be rewarded on the


judgment day. On the judgment day we


will be rewarded because his evil spoken


of but on your part he's glorified. It


talks


about when his glory shall be revealed.


So we know future wise God is going to


reward us. We are going to be rewarded


for what we suffered for his name's


sake. Abi. All right. If any man suffer


as a Christian, let him not be ashamed.


So stop feeling ashamed that people are


saying you you you are not a Christian.


Hah shame on you. Instead of of you to


join the happening guest in town, you


are now claiming that you are a


Christian. No. Where people are mocking


you for serving the Lord where you say


people are mocking you for serving the


Lord. Say no. Don't be ashamed. Take it.


Wear the badge of persecution with your


full chest. Abby. All right. If any man


suffers a Christian, let him not be


ashamed, but let him glorify God on this


behalf. Because the time has come that


judgment must begin at the house of God.


And if it first begin at us, what shall


the end be of them that obey not the


gospel of God? If the righteous scarcely


be saved, where shall the ungodly and


sinner appear? Wherefore let them that


suffer according to the will of God


commit the keeping of their souls to him


in welloing as unto a faithful creator.


So observe the issue here is 17 and 18


but 17 and 18 seems to continue. 17


begins the grammar for the time. 18


begins with and if and 19 says wherefore


and it now brings in suffer again. So


that means the context is


suffering. That's common sense. I don't


believe to be a Christian. If you're


talking to an unbeliever that went to


school, they can't argue that one


because the grammar is already revealing


that that 17 and 18 is still within the


same context of suffering. So but it


looks difficult to interpret because it


is not difficult to interpret. The


reason why it's hard to interpret is


because of what we already have in our


mind that judgment. So we already have


everywhere scatter go kill you. Not the


same way of saying oh go kill you. So


that right. So that thing is in the mind


cuz when the the the preacher is


preaching that hot


message judgment will begin from the


eyes of God. That's what he has in mind.


So and we have gotten used to that


position. So we put it we superimpose it


on the text. Instead of taking meaning


we give meaning to the


text. So three steps of Bible study.


observation, interpretation and


application. So observation is done by


critically looking at what is written.


We don't give it our own meaning. We


take meaning from it. So the Bible


interpret


itself. Is that okay? So the righteous


scarcely be saved. Ah righteous scarcely


be saved. Common sense should have told


you righteous scarcely be saved. The


righteous for a man to become righteous


it means already saved. So it's a


righteous scarcely be saved. scarcely be


saved from what? What is the contest?


The righteous scarcely be saved from


what? Because the righteous is already


saved. So what the righteous mean from?


Because you are righteous because you


are saved. But now say righteous care be


saved. So everything should be read


within the context. So there's no rush


in Bible study is a careful meticulous


surgical procedure is carried out. So we


read from verse 12 to verse 19.


Now in the


interpretation we must


observe for as much then as Christ have


suffered for us in the flesh arm


yourself likewise with the same mind. Is


that what he


said? Christ have suffered for us.


Christ have suffered for


us. He suffered for us.


thinking not strange concern the fiery


trial rejoicing as much as you are


particles of Christ


suffering are we good now remember I


told you 1 to verse 11 had a separate


context. If you have the time, you can


start from verse one. So what I said


just now is in verse one where he say,


"For as much Christ have suffered for us


in the flesh, arm yourself with the same


mind." So he was going to start talking


about suffering. Then he now talked


about how a Christian should be steward


of the grace of God. But you can read


the whole one to 19, but I jumped it.


Which is okay. which is okay because


from verse 12 is enough because


everything is important because he's


talking to the Christian he's talking to


the Christian not somebody he's talking


to the Christian so but from verse 12 to


verse 19 is what we read because of our


time we we particularly emphasize


that what is the believer saved from the


believer is already saved from


sin but he is not saved from persecution


that is the argument within the context


the believer is already saved is saved


from sin but is not safe from


persecution. Persecution


is part of our inheritance in Christ.


You cannot say you are a Christian. If


they hated him they will hate you. So


he's saying that we will suffer for


Christ's sake because we are now living


in opposition to the world to the sinful


the evil way of doing things. So we are


saved from sin but we are not saved from


persecution. So verse 12 he says the


fiery trial fiery trial is the


persecution which try them that believe.


So them that believe that means we


already


believe verse 13 he explains that fiery


trial as partaking of Christ suffering.


Then in verse 14 we are observing. I'm


not giving my own. Like I said, you put


your eye in your Bible, not on my face.


I'm talking from there. Verse 14, he


explains the


suffering as men reproaching us for the


name of


Christ. Verse


16, he spoke about suffering again as a


Christian.


So there are people persecuting us.


There are people that are making us


suffer. So we already have saved and


unsaved. The unsaved are now among the


people persecuting us or are the people


persecuting


us. Therefore he could only have been


referring to persecution against the


believer. So verse 17 will now flow from


the preceding vers. So he now says for


the time is come that judgment what


judgment question mark the fiery trials


the partaking of Christ suffering


suffering as a as a Christian. So the


judgment he will


mention where do we see judgment is any


judgment at all in the whole chapter


verse 5 and verse six there was a talk


of we will give account to him that is


ready to judge the quick and the dead.


Verse six it says for this cause was the


gospel preached unto unto them. So there


is already a judgment in the


context. Are you with me?


But the judgment is different from the


judgment in verse 14. So there are two


judgments he's talking about just like


there is saved and


unsaved. Now in the verse 12 to 19 we


read he talks about the


glory verse 13 when his glory shall be


revealed. That is the last day that is


the judgment day is talking about. So


the judgment is different from the


judgment in verse


14 because there is a judgment that is


coming from other people against us.


They reproach us for the name of Christ.


Happy are you for the spirit of glory


and of God rested upon you. So on their


part is evil spoken


of but on your part he is glorified. So


their judgment is different from the


judgment of God where he talks about


that our in the judgment of God we will


be rewarded for what we suffer but their


judgment is why they persecute us


judgment there is the word crema their


decision their verdict is that they


reproach


us a verdict so the word judgment is


caring you remove it their verdict their


verdict is that they reproach


us and they reproach us because we


preach but our the judgment that is


coming for us is at the end of the world


where we are


glorified. So the judgment of verse 17


is not coming from God because the


context of that judgment is persecution


which comes from men who do not believe


the gospel. So the judgment that we


begin from the house of God that is the


work of evil and unbelieving men against


the gospel because they have already


started casting their verdict against


us. That's why is Christians the things


of God that are always spoken against on


the


news. There's already a verdict against


Christian things of God.


So he now says to supply the context


again in case he's looking hard that


that judgment that is beginning from the


house of God is coming from the work of


evil and unbelieving men against us who


preach the gospel. He now says if the


righteous be scarcely saved from what?


Scarcely saved from judgment from the


persecution from unbelievers.


the right if the righteous be scarcely


saved or delivered from judgment from


the persecution of the ungodly because


the persecution of the ungodly is a


judgment if the righteous be scarcely


saved from it. So the scarcely saved


explains the fact that none of the


righteous will escape or is exempted


from persecution. No believer is


exempted. We are scarcely is hard to see


a believer that will not that will never


suffer for Jesus sake. if the righteous


care be saved. So he now concludes in


verse


19, wherefore let them that suffer


because it's still the context of


suffering. Let them that suffer


according to the will of God commit the


keeping of their souls to him in


welloing as unto a faithful creator. So


believers who are facing persecution or


suffering because of the will of God


should trust God for safety or from


deliverance for harm or


know that God is going to keep them till


the last day where they will be


rewarded. So he supplies the context is


not judgment must bring from house of


God. God wants to judge us to hell. No


you are adding to the text because it's


context is Christian suffering. So the


judgment that begins first from the


house of God is that the unbelievers are


always particular with


us. And that corroboration is all over


the scriptures where the Bible tells us


to pray to be delivered from


unreasonable and wicked


men. The Bible tells us that you should


pray for


us that we be delivered from them that


do not believe. Romans 15:31.


So the judgment of God is against who?


The judgment of God is not against the


believer. Judgment of God is for the


believer. In judgment of God for the


believer, we are rewarded. Once judgment


is against, it is the unsaved because


they are not saved. So the believer


cannot be scared of judgment from God


because God's judgment for us is reward


system where some are different measures


of reward but judgment against is for


the unsaved. So judgment is not a scary


topic. The judgment of God is against


those who do not believe the gospel.


Judgment of those who do not believe


against those who


believe. So judgment will begin at the


house of God. He was speaking of the


judgment from the world, not the


judgment from God. The judgment from the


world, which is


persecution, God's judgment is in


Christ. It doesn't change with person or


time. And in God's judgment, it says,


who shall bring a charge against God's


elect? No one can. Who will be able to


condemn us? No one can. What can the


love of God? No one


can. So the judgment of


God is already settled for the believer.


The believer has passed from


condemnation to


life. Where Peter says judgment must


begin from the house of God. He was


speaking of the trial of our faith.


Those who are given to the will and


purpose of God suffer


persecution. He never said the judgment


is of God.


So we are for the time has come that


judgment of God. No, it didn't say


judgment of God. Why do we now have to


bring judgment of God there when the


context is the world judging us for


believing in the Lord? Reproaching us


for believing in the Lord. So the


context what or whose


judgment verse


17 should be read from verse 12 to 19


like I said. So Peter said it's judgment


implying that saints will experience


damning decisions. We will experience


damning decisions from the world because


of our faith. They will damn us. Many


believers have been uh damned into


prison, damned into uh have been killed


for believing the gospel. That is what


he's talking about. He's not saying


believers are not saved. The righteous


cannot be saved. That righteous already.


I'm righteous because I'm already saved.


Righteous are scarcely saved from


persecution. So judgment must begin at


the house of God. These unbelievers,


their eyes on the house of God is always


pastors, Christians that they are


focused


on. That is the


context to suffer as a Christian suffer


according to the will of God. We are


reproach for the name of Christ. It is


not God that is bringing condemnation to


the church. That is stupid. That means


God is confused. How can he be bringing


condemnation to his church when he says


he will not condemn us? No. So he now


says that those unbelievers


who persecute us, who judge us, sorry


for them on the last day because they


have their own faith coming. That is


what he compares it to.


So if the righteous care be saved from


the persecution of ungodly men and


sinners, where shall the ungodly and


sinners now appear when they now stand


before God's own judgment? So they are


judging us now. We are appearing before


their judgment. But they too we appear


before God's judgment. And when they


appear before God's judgment in no


because he would tell


them it was me just like he tells Paul


on the way to


Damascus it is me you are persecuting


he's going to now tell them it was me


you were rejecting it is


me depart from me ye worker of iniquity


for I never knew you so they may be


judging us now but they can't escape


God's own


judgment. Are you following? Such a


simple


text if read in context. The issue is


the meaning that has been given to it.


But now for the first time, if this is


the first time you're hearing this


interpretation, you will notice that


your brain will finally be free to


remove that thing and read all in


context because he doesn't say judgment


of God. Judgment of God will begin from


the house of God. Just the same way


people who lie with I discipline myself


lest I be a cast away into hell. And I


said to a pastor then when people were


arguing about salvation uh 10 years ago


uh 10 7 to 10 years ago and I said to


the person I said there's no inhell


there. Why do you have to be dishonest?


Why do you have to lie to say what you


want to say? There's no hell mentioned


at all in the chapter. He said, and I'm


surprised that he was surprised. He now


went to go and check. He said, "Oh, he's


not there." I said, "Cast away is a


noun. There's not cast then space away."


He said, "Lest I be a cast away." He's


talking about preaching the gospel


because of money. Preaching for reward.


That's not how we preach the gospel.


Amen. Hallelujah.


So salvation has been moralized,


paganized, platonized, individualized,


temporalized and has been


horrorized. Salvation has also been


politicized that is about people.


Kennethi shared his own story where he


was going to hell where he was not


saved. He said, "I'm a Baptist." And the


Lord Jesus said to him, "What does that


mean? Do you know me? Not do you not not


holding on to a denomination? There are


many persons who are not saved but they


can say I am a Catholic. What does that


mean to Jesus? You you you will suffer


without him. But saying do you believe


in Jesus Christ? You are saying I am an


orthodox. I am a Lutheran. What does


that mean? I am Pentecostal. What does


that mean? Do you have Christ? Do you


have a life? If you have life then you


are in his son. Amen. So salvation


should not be politicized or


institutionalized where you say I am of


this. I am of that. But are you of


Jesus? If you are not of Jesus, you are


not saved. You are not saved. Amen.


Salvation is not I belong to this camp.


Salvation is not I belong to this


apostle. I belong to this prophet.


Salvation is I belong to


Jesus. Number eight, salvation has been


merchandise. Salvation is not


bought. In Acts 8:20, Peter said to the


man, "Your money perish with you, for


you thought that the gift of God can be


purchased with money." The gift of God.


Now, all gifts of God, what about the


most important gift of God, the gift of


eternal life, the indescribable gift of


God that cannot be bought. You don't buy


salvation. In fact, we were redeemed not


with gold and silver. We're redeemed by


the precious blood of the lamb. So we


cannot monetize


salvation. We're


redeemed not by silver or


gold. Hallelujah. But by the precious


blood of the lamb. That's how we were


redeemed. Hallelujah. That's first Peter


1 and verse 18. For as much as he know


that you were not redeemed with


corruptible things as silver and gold,


from your vain conversation received by


traditions from your fathers, but with


the precious blood of Christ as of a


lamp without blemish and without


spot. That's how we were


saved. Hallelujah.


In a conference in Abuja, some evil


people came together called and they


said it is money that took Jesus to the


cross. money problem and the members


were smiling hearing guest speakers upon


guest speakers that obviously do not


serve the purpose of God. The Bible say


from such withdraw yourself for they say


that godliness is gain. The Bible tells


us to avoid such preachers. We don't


listen to them. Paul was writing to a


pastor Timothy. He told him the love of


money is the root of all evil. Once we


monetize the gospel, we tell people come


to Jesus.


And that also was a in a measure the way


purgatory was also brought in. You can


pay penance for your salvation. All of


this is devilish and demonic. Away with


human religion. All of this is false and


not of God. Not in the


scriptures.


Salvation is free. It is by faith in


Christ alone. Hallelujah.


We do not serve God for things. What


shall he profit the a man to gain the


whole world and lose his soul? God said


to that man, rich food, oh today your


soul is required of you. So is not


acquisition of material things. We are


not competing with the world for who has


more silver and gold, who has more


money. No. And that's why the Christian


can abase and abound. Paul says in


Philippians, I can do all things through


Christ who strengthens me. The core is


that I live for the Lord. Does that mean


we should be poor? No. God is not


against us being rich. Is neither is he


for us being


poor. He's not for is not against us.


Notice the emphasis. He's not against us


being rich. Neither is he for us being


poor, but is for us living for his


glory. Amen. Hallelujah. The gospel is


news to the rich and the poor. The


gospel is news to everybody. The poor


man can't be saved. The rich man can't


be saved. Let's not remove salvation


again from the poor people and say poor


people cannot be saved. How? That's


going too far. Salvation should not be


merchandise. Before you get saved and


after you are saved should not be


merchandise. Is giving good? Yes. Is


money a good thing? Yes. But money


should never have your


soul. Money should never have your soul.


When money have your soul, you kill your


parents for it. When money have your


soul, you do all manner of evil things


for money. Money should not have your


soul. Nothing control us. Remember in


the series we said when we sin, we hand


over to sin and unseen forces a power


they were never meant to have. But Jesus


have starved them of their oxygen in his


work of dying for us for our sins. So


the gospel is the news that God died.


God sent his son to lo in his love, in


his mercy and his grace, he sent his son


to die for our sins, to redeem us, to


make us his people, to make us his


children. So from the very first chapter


of Genesis, Eden was the focal point of


God's plan for man and for the rest of


his unseen creation and his kingdom. It


is not a surprise nor a coincidence that


the last chapter of the book of


revelation takes us back to Eden. It


started with the garden of Eden. It will


end with the global Eden. All the earth


for Christ. That is the focus. That is


the focus and that's what we live for.


So when we said God is working salvation


or the biblical writer say God is


working salvation. God is restoring all


the earth for his glory. He's renewing


it. He's not doing away with space time


and matter. He's renewing it, redeeming


it to fill it up with his glory with his


name and his presence all the earth for


the Lord. Amen.


Hallelujah. That's what God is doing.


That's the salvation he's walking on the


earth. Stand on your feet and thank him.


What a conclusion to this series. We've


learned that what God is doing in the


earth, that's what he's doing. He's


walking salvation.


Go forth with this understanding. Go


forth with the understanding that your


sins are forgiven. Go forth with the


understanding that you are bought with


the precious blood of the lamb. Go forth


with the understanding that you are


saved forever, that you are redeemed,


possessed of the Lord. God is your God


and your father. And that understanding


should affect your mind. It should


affect your conduct. It should affect


how you live with others. and you are a


blessing to others. We have a vocation


to others. Now God has empowered you.


Yeah. All over this auditorium right


now, there's an enablement and an


empowerment to carry out the work of the


gospel. To preach the gospel with mighty


signs and wonders. To preach the gospel


the way God enabled us to preach the


gospel with signs following. Yeah. Signs


of another kingdom. That kingdom that we


are from, that kingdom of God we live


in, we bear signs of a new heaven and a


new earth to men of a different heaven


and earth. We tell them, "Come over.


Cross over. Come over. Come over. Come


over. Come over." And God has enabled


us. He has put his fire in our mouth


that we can tell people, "Come over.


Cross over from your heaven and earth of


sin, death, defeat, paths of darkness,


finishing your life. Cross over. The


gospel is news that something has


happened of which the world will never


be the same again. Jesus has done a


work. He has destroyed the slave owner.


He has destroyed the


slavery. He has destroyed the slave


market. You are free. You don't have to


suffer under sin, death, damnation,


guilt. You don't have to suffer anymore.


Jesus have dealt with these things. He


has rescued creation to be all God made


it to be. That's the gospel that we


preach and God has enabled us. He has


empowered us to preach that gospel with


mighty signs and wonders. Thank you,


Jesus.


Thank you for the cross. Thank you for


the cross.